Confirm proper operation of the _{prog}_ decoder by opening a sample
audio file recorded by _{prog}_. Select *File | Open*, navigate to the
+...\save\Samples+ directory under the installation directory, and
open the file +091022_0436.wav+.  A total of six _{prog}_ signals
should be decoded, and your screen should look like the image
below. You might find it interesting to listen to the sample file
using Windows Sound Recorder or a similar utility program. The
_{prog}_ signals are barely audible, if audible at all, and the
recording includes many atmospheric static crashes... and yet _{prog}_
decodes the signals without errors.

[[FigSampleFile]]
image::images/Sample_File_Decoded.png[align="center"] 

To prepare for on-the-air operation, proceed as follows:

- Select an operating band from the *Band* menu. The default _{prog}_
frequency will appear in the Dial frequency box. For example, you
should see 10.138700 MHz for the 30 m band. Set your transceiver to
this frequency in USB mode, or a USB-based data mode. If you have
enabled CAT control, frequency setting should occur
automatically. Select a desired Tx frequency by double-clicking
somewhere in the graphical display area. Available Tx frequencies fall
in the range 1400–1600 Hz above the dial frequency. Clicking near the
bottom of the graphical area gives a frequency near the lower limit,
and clicking near the top puts you near the upper limit.

- _{prog}_ uses two-minute time slots for transmitting and
receiving. The slider labeled *Tx fraction* sets the average proportion
of time allocated for transmitting.  The default setting of 20% is a
good compromise under most conditions: it means that you will
transmit approximately once every ten minutes and receive the rest of
the time. The exact T/R sequence will be randomized so as to maximize
your chances of receiving other _{prog}_ stations. For receive-only
operation, set the *Tx fraction* slider to zero.

- While in *Idle* mode, you may click the *Tune* button to produce a
short unmodulated test transmission. Duration of the transmission (in
seconds) is set by the Tx fraction slider.

- If you have internet access and wish to upload your reports automatically to
{wsprnet}, check the box labeled *Upload spots*.

- Be sure that your computer clock is correct to within about ±1 second. 

- To begin normal operation, clear the *Idle* checkbox. _{prog}_ will
then begin a receive sequence at the start of the next even-numbered
UTC minute. After reception has started, use the computer’s sound
mixer and/or the volume controls on your radio or soundcard interface
to adjust the audio level (lower left corner of main _{prog}_ screen)
to about midscale. 

- At the end of each reception interval, the waterfall will update and
any decoded _{prog}_ messages will appear in the main text window.
The decoder looks for all detectable _{prog}_ signals in a 200 Hz
passband and displays its results in a waterfall spectrogram, a text
window, and a Band Map.  The spectrogram covers a narrow frequency
range (about 200 Hz) in the vertical direction; the last three digits
of the received frequency, in Hz, are displayed on a scale at right.
Time runs from left to right in the spectrogram.  On a typical
computer screen each two-minute interval is a strip about 1 cm wide.
The times of your own transmissions are denoted by thin green vertical
lines in the spectrogram.

[[FigSpectrogram]]
image::images/Spectrogram.png[align="center"] 

- Each decoded _{prog}_ signal produces text showing the UTC, measured
signal-to-noise ratio in dB (in a 2500 Hz reference bandwidth), time
offset DT in seconds, measured frequency in MHz, drift rate in
Hz/minute, and the decoded message.  Time offsets greater than about
±2 seconds indicate a significant timing error at transmitter or
receiver, or possibly both.  For best performance your computer clock
should be kept accurate to within ±1 second.  Apparent frequency
drifts greater than ±1 Hz per minute can usually be traced to the
transmitter, and should be corrected if possible.  Of course, receiver
drifts could also contribute to a measured drift — but they are easily
recognized because nearly all signals will then appear to drift by the
same amount.

[[FigDecodedText]]
image::images/Decoded_Text.png[align="center"] 

- Color coding is used in the Band Map to indicate elapsed time since
a station was decoded.  Calls in red have been seen within 15 minutes
of the last line of decoded text; yellow callsigns are 15-30 minutes
old, light gray 30-45 minutes, and darker gray 45-60 minutes.
Callsigns more than an hour older than the most recent one are deleted
from the Band Map.

[[FigBandMap]]
image::images/Band_Map.png[align="center"] 

- For best performance the background noise level going into the
computer should be set to show approximately midscale on the
"thermometer" scale at lower left.  Deviations as large as ±20 dB from
nominal will not affect _{prog}_ decoding capability significantly.
The idea is to have the baseline noise level high enough for
quantization noise to be negligible, but low enough to give adequate
dynamic range. Signal levels reported for each _{prog}_ decode are the
measured ratio of signal power to average baseline noise power, scaled
to a reference bandwidth of 2500 Hz.  Within broad limits, this ratio
is independent of the level setting.

- Under most conditions a receiver bandwidth normal for voice SSB
communication, say 2.4 kHz, is a good choice.  Narrower bandwidths are
perfectly acceptable if you have problems with strong signals well
outside the 200 Hz _{prog}_ passband.  There is no particular
advantage in using a bandwidth as small as 200 Hz, however, since
_{prog}_ does all necessary narrow-band filtering in software.

- Usually it is not critical whether AGC is on or off.  A good default
procedure is to leave it on, and set the desired audio level by
reducing the RF gain. In effect this means that AGC will be activated
only when very strong signals are present in the passband.
Slow-recovery AGC settings are generally not desirable for _{prog}_.
