Echo mode allows you to make sensitive measurements of your own lunar
echoes, even when they are too weak to be heard.  Select *Echo* from
the *Mode* menu, aim your antenna at the moon, pick a clear frequency,
and toggle *Auto ON*.  _WSJT_ will then cycle through the following
loop every 6 seconds:

1. Transmit a fixed tone for 2.0 s 
2. Wait about 0.5 s for start of return echo 
3. Record the received signal for 2.0 s 
4. Analyze, average, and display the results 
5. Repeat from step 1 

The program compensates for Doppler shift automatically, so your
return echo should always fall at the center of the plot area, as in
the screen shot below.  However, on bands higher than 144 MHz it is
usually necessary to use split VFOs or RIT and to inform the program
that you are doing so, to ensure that the echo falls within the
limited receiver passband.  For example, when this screen shot was
made the predicted Doppler shift at 432 MHz was -802 Hz.  Entry field
*RIT (Hz)* on the *Setup | Options* window was set to a nearby round
number, 800 Hz, and the transceiver's RIT control was set at the same
value.

image::images/echo.png[align="left",width=650,alt=""]

A nonzero entry for *Dither (Hz)* instructs the program to offset the
frequencies of successive echo pulses randomly, with a specified range
around the nominal value 1500 Hz. The observed spectrum of each echo
is shifted by the randomized dither amount before being accumulated
into the average displayed in the red curve. This procedure is very
effective in minimizing the impact of birdies in the receiver
passband. In the average (red) spectrum, a fixed-frequency birdie will
be smeared out over a frequency range equal to the *Dither* value. For
comparison, the blue curve displays the echo data uncorrected for
dithering.  In the above screen shot the peaks in the blue curve
correspond to seven individual 2-second transmissions, which were
dithered over a 50 Hz range.  Birdies will be spread slightly in the
blue spectrum owing to gradual changes in Doppler shift, but they will
not be affected by the dithering.

Information displayed in the main text box gives the number *N* of
completed echo cycles, the average *Level* of receiver background
noise in dB, the average echo strength *Sig* in dB, its measured
frequency offset *DF* in Hz (after correction for predicted Doppler
shift), the spectral *Width* of the echo in Hz, and a relative quality
indicator *Q* on a 0-10 scale. Background noise level is given with
respect to the nominal 0 dB level used for all _WSJT_ modes. Signal
strength is measured in dB relative to the noise power in a 2500 Hz
passband. Low numbers for *Q* mean that an echo has not been detected,
or is unreliable.  When *Q*=0 the values of *DF* and *Width* are
meaningless, and *Sig* may be considered an upper limit. Larger values
of *Q* imply increasingly believable echo measurements. If you can
hear your own lunar echoes, you will see reliable echo numbers within
a few seconds after toggling *Auto ON*. If your echoes are 15 to 20 dB
below the audible threshold you should get significant results within
a minute or less.  (Remember, though, that Faraday rotation can make
the echo's linear polarization angle different from that of the
transmitting antenna.)


