V1.6.0 is the first _WSJT-X_ version to include features specifically
designed for use on VHF and higher bands.  These features include JT4,
a mode particularly useful for EME on the microwave bands; Echo mode,
for detecting and measuring your own lunar echoes; and automatic
Doppler tracking for the EME path.  Note that sub-modes JT65B and
JT65C are present in v1.6.0, but are not yet fully implemented for EME
purposes.

- Check the box labeled _Enable VHF/UHF/Microwave features_ on the
*Settings | General* tab to activate the VHF-and-up features.  You
will probably want to check also the boxes _Decode at t = 52 s_ and
_Allow Tx frequency changes while transmitting_ to allow for the EME
path delay and permit Doppler tracking while transmitting.  In
appropriate modes the main window will reconfigure itself to include
controls supporting the additional features.

image::images/VHF_controls.png[align="center",alt="VHF Controls"]

IMPORTANT: Not all transceivers permit computer adjustments
of Tx frequency while transmitting.  Among those that do are the
IC735, IC756 Pro II, IC910-H, FT-847, TS-2000 (with Rev 9 firmware
upgrade), Flex 1500 and 5000, HPSDR, Anan-10, Anan-100, and KX3.

- On the *View* menu, select *Astronomical data* to display a window
with important information for tracking the Moon and performing
automatic Doppler control.

image::images/Astronomical_data.png[align="center",alt="Astronomical data"]

- Note that two types of Doppler control are provided.  Use _Full
Doppler to DX Grid_ if you know your QSO partner's locator and he/she
is not using Doppler control.  Use _Constant frequency on Moon_ to
correct only for your own (one-way) Doppler shift.  For any other
station that does the same thing, you will then have full Doppler
correction.

=== EME with JT4

- Select *JT4* from the *Mode* menu.

- Select the desired submode, which determines the tone spacing.
Higher spacings are used on the higher microwave bands, to allow for
larger Doppler spreads. For example, JT4F is generally used for EME on
the 10 GHz band.

- If you are using a transverter, set the appropriate offset on the
*Settings | Frequencies* tab.
