_{prog}_ 4.0 allows those with CAT-controlled radios to investigate
propagation on many bands without user intervention.  

- Select *Band Hopping* on the Setup menu or type *F9*, and you'll see
the screen shown below.  You can select any mix of active bands and
Tx fractions.  If you then check *Band Hop* in the main window,
_{prog}_ will switch bands randomly after each 2-minute interval.  If
the box labeled *Tuneup* is checked for a particular band, _{prog}_
will transmit an unmodulated carrier for several seconds just after
switching to that band and before the normal Rx or Tx period starts.
This feature can be used to activate an automatic antenna tuner (ATU)
to tune a multi-band antenna to the newly selected band.  Check the
box *Coordinated hopping* to enable sequential hopping through as many
as ten bands, according to the schedule shown in the table below.

[[FigBandHopping]]
image::images/BandHopping.png[align="center"] 

*Coordinated
hopping* enables a sizable group of stations around the world to move
together from band to band, thereby maximizing the chances of
identifying open propagation paths.

 Band (m)   160  80  60  40  30  20  17  15  12  10
 UTC Minute  00  02  04  06  08  10  12  14  16  18
             20  22  24  26  28  30  32  34  36  38
             40  42  44  46  48  50  52  54  56  58 

The band-selection schedule repeats starting at UTC minutes 20 and 40,
for a total of three full ten-band sequences in each hour.  If the
designated band for a given time slot has not been checked as active,
a random choice is made among the active bands.  The algorithm for
choosing whether to receive or transmit guarantees at least one
transmission on each active band every two hours. If all ten bands are
active, up to three transmissions may be made on a given band in a two
hour period.

Depending on your station and antenna setup, band changes might
require other switching besides retuning your radio. To make this
possible in an automated way, whenever _{prog}_ executes a successful
band-change command to a CAT-controlled radio, it looks for a file
named +user_hardware.bat+, +user_hardware.cmd+, +user_hardware.exe+,
or +user_hardware+ in the working directory. If one of these is found,
_{prog}_ tries to execute the command

 user_hardware nnn 

where *nnn* is the band-designation wavelength in meters.  You will
need to write your own program, script, or batch file to do the
necessary switching at your station. I wrote a simple Python program
for this purpose. One of my antennas is an all-band dipole fed with
open-wire line through a 4:1 current balun and an automatic ATU. Other
antennas include a shunt-fed tower for 160 m and a tri-band trap
dipole for 20, 15, and 10 m. The desired antenna is selected
automatically, by band.  When the all-band dipole is selected, the ATU
adjusts itself during the several seconds just before a transmission
or reception period begins.
