wspr/source/faq.adoc, before:

[qanda]
I don’t see any _WSPR_ signals in the waterfall spectrogram. What solutions can I try to remedy this?::

. Is the Idle box is unchecked? 
. Have you selected the correct Audio in device in the Station parameters 
dialog? 
. Is audio reaching the computer? 
. The Rx Noise level displayed at bottom left of the WSPR window during a 
reception period should be at least –10 dB. If it is very low, e.g. –30 dB, you 
might need to adjust the volume level in your computer operating system 
and/or receiver. 
. Are any stations active on the selected band? For new users, 30 m is a good 
starting band as it generally has high activity and good propagation. Check 
the WSPRnet Activity page http://wsprnet.org/drupal/wsprnet/activity to see 
how many stations are active on a band, and where they are located. 
. Is your receiver is on the correct frequency and in USB mode? The readout 
frequency should be the one given in the Dial box. Use a standard-frequency 
signal such as WWV to determine your receiver's calibration accuracy and 
then, if necessary, adjust the receiver dial frequency accordingly. 

Now I see WSPR traces in the spectrogram but no decodes. What should I try now?::

. Reboot your computer. When it has rebooted, see if WSPR is working before 
starting any other programs. 
. Is your computer clock is set accurately enough? WSPR’s time readout 
should be within about ±1 second of the correct UTC. 
. Is your receiver drifting in frequency? If most WSPR traces slope either 
upward or downward in the spectrogram, the receiver is probably drifting too 
much. Try waiting half an hour to see if it stabilizes. 
. If you are transmitting, additional heat generated by the transmitter may 
contribute to the drift. Try reducing your output power or reducing Tx fraction 
so that you transmit less often.

Commit message:

more WSPR updating-FAQ related
git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc@3819 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

wspr/source/faq.adoc, after:

[qanda]
I don’t see any _WSPR_ signals in the waterfall spectrogram. What solutions can I try to remedy this?::

. Is the +Idle+ box is unchecked? 
. Have you selected the correct Audio-in device in the +Station Parameters+ 
dialog? 
. Is audio reaching the computer? 
. The Rx Noise level displayed at bottom left of the WSPR window during a 
reception period should be at least –10 dB. If it is very low, e.g. –30 dB, you 
might need to adjust the volume level in your computer operating system 
and/or receiver. 
. Are any stations active on the selected band? For new users, 30 m is a good 
starting band as it generally has high activity and good propagation. Check 
the WSPRnet Activity page http://wsprnet.org/drupal/wsprnet/activity to see 
how many stations are active on a band, and where they are located. 
. Is your receiver is on the correct frequency and in USB mode? The readout 
frequency should be the one given in the Dial box. Use a standard-frequency 
signal such as WWV to determine your receiver's calibration accuracy and 
then, if necessary, adjust the receiver dial frequency accordingly. 

Now I see WSPR traces in the spectrogram but no decodes. What should I try now?::

. Reboot your computer. When it has rebooted, see if WSPR is working before 
starting any other programs. 
. Is your computer clock is set accurately enough? WSPR’s time readout 
should be within about ±1 second of the correct UTC. 
. Is your receiver drifting in frequency? If most WSPR traces slope either 
upward or downward in the spectrogram, the receiver is probably drifting too 
much. Try waiting half an hour to see if it stabilizes. 
. If you are transmitting, additional heat generated by the transmitter may 
contribute to the drift. Try reducing your output power or reducing Tx fraction 
so that you transmit less often. 

Finally, I’ve started to see _WSPR_ decodes, but none of my decoded signals are being reported on {wspr}. What gives?::

. Perhaps your signal simply isn't being received by anyone. A simple antenna and a few watts should allow you to decode other people's signals, and vice- versa, on 30 m during daylight hours. Turning up your power level beyond 5 to 10 watts is not recommended, as lack of decodes on 30 m is most likely a setup issue and not related to your power level.. The {wspr} Activity page http://wsprnet.org/drupal/wsprnet/activitycanbe used to see how many stations are active on a band and where they are located.. Is your transmitter switching to transmit? Check that you have selected the correct PTT method and PTT port or CAT settings. These parameters are configured in the Station parameters dialog.. Is your transmitter generating output? Use its metering features or a field strength meter or SWR bridge to ensure that you are generating a signal.
. If you have no power output,check that you have selected the correct Audio out device in the Station parameters dialog. You may also need to adjust the sound output volume level in your operating system’s audio mixer, or a sound level setting in your transmitter (e.g. Mic level).. Are you transmitting in upper sideband(USB)in the specified 200HzWSPR frequency range? With a transceiver, if you don't see WSPR signals in the waterfall or they are not evenly spread above and below the center frequency, your transceiver may not be set to the correct frequency, or its frequency readout is not calibrated accurately.My spots of other stations are not appearing in the WSPRnet.org database.::1. Have you checked the Upload spots checkbox? Be aware that if you have used the File menu features to decode saved files, Upload spots will have been unchecked automatically.2. Are you successfully decoding WSPR signals? You should see WSPR messages in the large text box towards the bottom of the WSPR window, and callsigns in the Band Map at top right.
My locator is displayed as only 4 digits in the WSPRnet.org database.::
1. Have you entered a 6 digit locator in the Station parameters dialog? You should always enter a 6 digit locator here.2. On the {wspr} website,ensure that in your account details you have entered a 6 digit locator.
CAT control is not working properly with my radio.::
1. Your radio may require settings beyond those made available on the Setup screen. You can insert additional rig-control parameters by editing the Handshake line on the Station parameters screen. For example, if you need Handshake = Hardware and parity = Even, the Handshake line should read     Hardware –C serial_parity=Even2. Some radios(e.g.,YaesuFT-450,FT-950,andFlexRadio3000)do not like the default timing parameters used by the rigctl program. CAT control of these radios requires the following text on the Handshake line:     Hardware –C write_delay=0
