wspr/source/wspr-main.adoc, before:

// Status=review
// This is a comment line, anything with // is ignored at process time.
= WSPR 3.0 User Guide
//:Author: Joe Taylor, K1JT
//:Date: February 21, 2011
:badges:
:icons:
:numbered:
:keywords: amateur radio weak signal communication K1JT WSJT FSK441 JT65 JT6M WSPR WSJT-X WSPR-X
:description: Software for Amateur Radio Weak-Signal Communication
:prog: WSPR

// use global link file
include::../../global/links.adoc[]

// These [[xxxx]] labels are HTML anchors, and can be used to
// navigate though the document easily: <<[INTRO],See Introduction]>> will
// place a hyper-link in your text to take you too the anchored section.
// All major sections or points of interest should have one.

// == is level (2), section 1.0, === would mean section 1.1, === would
// be section 1.1.1. This method is used throughout the document.

[[INTRO]]
== Introduction
include::introduction.adoc[]

[[SYSREQ]]
== System Requirements
include::system-requirements.adoc[]

[[INSTALL]]
== Installation

- The following installation instructions should help to guide you to the correct software for your system.  

[[INSTALL_WIN]]
=== Windows

- Download _WSPR_ from the . Click on the appropriate download link for Windows. Install the program by clicking on the downloaded file and follow the installation instructions. The result should have the installed the program in +C:\WSPR+. 

[[INSTALL_OSX]]
=== OS X

- NH6Z has made a binary available for download. Download and follow his instructions . 

[[INSTALL_UBU]]
=== Linux

- For Ubuntu and other recent 32-bit Debian-based systems, you can download an 
installation file from another link on the . To install and execute WSPR, put the downloaded file in your home directory and execute the following commands from a command-prompt window, if necessary substituting the correct revision number for the one shown:

 $ sudo dpkg --instdir=. -i wspr_3.00r2319_i386.deb 
 $ cd WSPR 
 $ ./wspr  
//[[SRC_CODE]]
//=== Source Code
//include::install-from-source.adoc

[[CONFIG]]
== Setup and Configuration

[[BASICINSTRUCTIONS]]
== Basic Operating Instructions
include::basicoperating.adoc[]

[[ACK]]
== Acknowledgements
include::acknowledgements.adoc[]

[appendix]
License
-------
include::../../global/license.adoc[]

Commit message:

more WSPR updating
git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc@3811 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

wspr/source/wspr-main.adoc, after:

// Status=review
// This is a comment line, anything with // is ignored at process time.
= WSPR User Guide
//:Author: Joe Taylor, K1JT
//:Date: February 21, 2011
:badges:
:icons:
:numbered:
:keywords: amateur radio weak signal communication K1JT WSJT FSK441 JT65 JT6M WSPR WSJT-X WSPR-X
:description: Software for Amateur Radio Weak-Signal Communication
:prog: WSPR

// use global link file
include::../../global/links.adoc[]

// These [[xxxx]] labels are HTML anchors, and can be used to
// navigate though the document easily: <<[INTRO],See Introduction]>> will
// place a hyper-link in your text to take you too the anchored section.
// All major sections or points of interest should have one.

// == is level (2), section 1.0, === would mean section 1.1, === would
// be section 1.1.1. This method is used throughout the document.

[[INTRO]]
== Introduction
include::introduction.adoc[]

[[SYSREQ]]
== System Requirements
include::system-requirements.adoc[]

[[INSTALL]]
== Installation

- The following installation instructions should help to guide you to the correct software for your system.  

[[INSTALL_WIN]]
=== Windows

- Download _WSPR_ from the {wspr}. Click on the appropriate download link for Windows. Install the program by clicking on the downloaded file and follow the installation instructions. The result should have installed the program in +C:\WSPR+. 

[[INSTALL_OSX]]
=== OS X

- NH6Z has made a binary available for download. Download and follow his instructions {nh6z}. 

[[INSTALL_UBU]]
=== Linux

- For Ubuntu and other recent 32-bit Debian-based systems, you can download an 
installation file from another link on the {wspr}. To install and execute _WSPR_, put the downloaded file in your home directory and execute the following commands from a command-prompt window, if necessary substituting the correct revision number for the one shown:

 $ sudo dpkg --instdir=. -i wspr_3.00r2319_i386.deb 
 $ cd WSPR 
 $ ./wspr  
[[SRC_CODE]]
=== Source Code
include::install-from-source.adoc[]

//[[CONFIG]]
//== Setup and Configuration

[[BASICINSTRUCTIONS]]
== Basic Operating Instructions
include::basicoperating.adoc[]

[[TROUBLESHOOTING]]
== Troubleshooting
include::faq.adoc[]

[[ACK]]
== Acknowledgements
include::acknowledgements.adoc[]

[appendix]
License
-------
include::../../global/license.adoc[]
