quick-ref/source/quick-ref-main.adoc, before:

// Status=review
// this is intentionally left as a single file v.s. multiple sections to allow
// users to browse the Page Source
= AsciiDoc Quick Reference
:badges:
:icons:
:numbered:
:keywords: amateur radio weak signal communication K1JT WSJT FSK441 JT65 JT6M JT9 WSJTX
:description: Software for Amateur Radio Weak-Signal Communication

// use global link file
include::../../global/links.adoc[]

== Introduction
The purpose of this guide is to provide a quick reference to commonly
used items while working with the _WSJT-X Documentation_ project.

IMPORTANT: This guide is currently under development.

== AsciiDoc Examples
* {asciidoc_help} by {stuart_rackman}
* {asciidoc_questions} by {stuart_rackman}
* {asciidoc_cheatsheet} by {alex_efros}

== AsciiDoc Installation

Python is the only package required to buuld User Guide Documents.

To build the {dev_guide}, both _Python_ and _GNU Source Highlight_ are
required.

=== Windows Setup

Add content

=== Linux Setup

Add Content

[appendix]
License
-------
include::../../global/license.adoc[]

Commit message:

*General Documentation Update*
*General and Syntax Edits*
- fixed some syntax issues
- added a couple links
- updated wsjtx-dev.adoc for MS Tools
- added some content
- added :page: info to dev-guide

:: @QX9770-SRV1/Win64 ==> Cygwin Terminal



git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc@3750 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

quick-ref/source/quick-ref-main.adoc, after:

// Status=review
// this is intentionally left as a single file v.s. multiple sections to allow
// users to browse the Page Source
= AsciiDoc Quick Reference
:badges:
:icons:
:numbered:
:keywords: amateur radio weak signal communication K1JT WSJT FSK441 JT65 JT6M JT9 WSJTX
:description: Software for Amateur Radio Weak-Signal Communication

// use global link file
include::../../global/links.adoc[]

== Introduction
The purpose of this guide is to provide a quick reference to commonly
used items while working with the _WSJT Documentation_ project.

IMPORTANT: This guide is currently under development.

== AsciiDoc Examples
* {asciidoc_help} by {stuart_rackman}
* {asciidoc_questions} by {stuart_rackman}
* {asciidoc_cheatsheet} by {alex_efros}
* {asciidoctor_style} by Asciidoctor Project 2014. 
* {asciidoctor_syntax} by Asciidoctor Project 2014. 

== AsciiDoc Installation

=== Windows

Being re-written

=== Linux

Being re-written


[appendix]
License
-------
include::../../global/license.adoc[]
