In JT65 mode a blue-background text box presents data for tracking the
moon, tuning your receiver, and estimating EME path degradation.  You
can select menu item *View | Astronomical data* to see more such data
in a separate window, as shown below.  The available information
includes azimuth and elevation (*Az* and *El*) for the Moon, the Sun,
and another astronomical source of your choice.  The right ascension
(*RA*) and declination (*DEC*) for the additional astronomical source
should be entered on the *Setup | Options* screen in the formats
hh:mm:ss and dd.dd.  *Az* and *El* of the Moon are given for the
location of the DX station, as well as for the home station.
*Doppler* shift (in Hz) and the rate of change of Doppler shift,
*df/dt*, in Hz/minute, are listed for two-way transmissions to and
from the DX station and for self-echoes from the home station. *RA*
and *DEC* are given for the moon.  All on-screen coordinates are in
degrees except for *RA*, which is in hours and minutes.  *Tsky* gives
the approximate galactic background temperature in the direction of
the moon, scaled to the operating frequency *Freq*; *MNR* is the
maximum non-reciprocity of the EME path in dB, owing to spatial
polarization; *Dpol* is the spatial polarization offset, in degrees;
*Dgrd* is an estimate of the total signal degradation in dB, relative to
the best possible time when the moon is at perigee and in a cold part
of the sky; and *SD* is the moon's semi-diameter in arc minutes.

[[FigAstroData]]
image::images/AstroData.png[align="center"]
