TIP: some controls are enabled only in certain operating modes.

[horizontal]

Add:: add the displayed callsign and grid locator to the database file
CALL3.TXT.  If an entry for this callsign already exists, you will be
asked if you want to replace it.

AFC:: enable automatic frequency control in the JT65 decoding algorithm.  

Auto:: toggle on or off an automatic sequence of transmit and receive
periods.

Clear Avg:: erase text in average message box, and clear message
accumulator.

Clip:: normally set to zero.  Increase its value to apply soft,
moderate, or hard clipping to a signal before attempting to decode its
message and to reduce the effects of static crashes, etc.

Decode:: analyze the most recently recorded or opened file, perhaps
after one or more decoding parameters have been changed.

Defaults:: reset parameters S, Sync, Clip, and Tol to default values.

Dsec:: adjust UTC clock reading in 0.5 s increments to manually
resynchronize with UTC or with your QSO partner's computer.  (In
general, it is best to keep the Windows clock set accurately and Dsec
set to zero.)

Erase:: clear all information in main text boxes and graphical areas.

Exclude:: remove most recent recording from the average message
accumulator.  Use this option when you are sure that the program has
synchronized incorrectly (for example, because DF and/or DT differ
substantially from expected values) and you wish to avoid
contaminating the average message with bad data.

F1:: display a list of keyboard shortcuts.

Shift-F1:: display a list of special mouse commands.

F2:: display the Options screen.

F3:: toggle the status of Tx mute, which prevents switching into Tx
mode.

F4:: clear the To radio and Grid boxes.

F5:: display reminders about what message to send.

F6:: open and decode next wave file in selected directory.

F7:: set FSK441 mode.

Shift-F7:: set JT6M mode.

F8:: set JT65A mode.

Shift-F8:: set JT65B mode.

CTRL-F8:: set JT65C mode.

F10:: toggle focus between SpecJT and the main WSJT screen.

Freeze:: search only frequencies within +/-Tol Hz of Freeze DF.
Freeze DF can be adjusted by using the left/right keyboard arrows.  In
JT65 mode it can also be set by clicking on the red spike or on the
SpecJT waterfall display.

Gen Std Msgs:: generate standard messages for the mode in use.

Include:: if signal level is greater than -33 dB, add most recent
recording to average message accumulator even if Sync is less than
stated threshold.

Log QSO:: click to add an entry for To radio to the simple log file
WSJT.LOG.  Logged information includes date, time, callsign, locator,
band, and mode.

Lookup:: search database file CALL3.TXT for entry in To radio. If
callsign is found, retrieve the station's grid locator and use it to
calculate distance, azimuth, elevation, and Doppler shift.

Monitor:: start a series of reception intervals, perhaps to monitor a
calling frequency or to copy another station engaged in a QSO.

NB:: blank short noise pulses from the received data before decoding.

S:: set minimum signal level (in dB) that will be accepted as a ping.  

Save:: save the most recently recorded file. 

Sh Msg:: enable transmission of FSK441 shorthand messages. 

Sked:: check this box if you are running a schedule with a known
station and do not wish to see any results from the deep search
decoder that are not relevant to your QSO.

Stop:: terminate the Monitor sequence. 

Sync::  set synchronizing threshold (default = 1) for the JT65 decoder.

Tol:: set decoder's tolerance (in Hz) to frequency offsets.  

Tx1 - Tx6:: transmit the selected message.  Transmission will continue
until the end of the present Tx sequence.

Tx First:: check this box if you want to transmit during the first
period of the timed T/R cycle.  Uncheck it if your QSO partner is
transmitting in the first period. ``First'' is defined as the first
T/R interval of a UTC hour, and alternately thereafter.

Tx Stop:: terminate a transmission and set Auto to off.

Zap:: filter out birdies (narrowband signals of approximately constant
amplitude) before attempting to decode.

.Main Screen Text Boxes
[horizontal]

Average Text:: displays average messages in JT65 mode.

Decoded Text:: displays decoded messages and other signal information.

Grid:: after a successful Lookup, displays the six-digit grid locator
of the callsign in the To radio box.  You can also enter a grid
locator manually.  If only four digits of the locator are known, add a
space.

Report:: in FSK441 and JT6M modes, enter the signal report you wish to
send to the other station, then click GenStdMsgs.  Status Bar:: panels
at the bottom of the WSJT screen display sample rate factors,
operating mode, Freeze DF, Rx noise level, TR period, and T/R status,
and the message being transmitted.

Moon:: current azimuth and elevation of the moon at your location,
2-way EME Doppler shift between your location and the specified grid
locator, and EME path degradation in dB for the selected band.

To radio:: callsign of station being called.  Text entered in this box
becomes leading part of recorded file names.
