JT65 and JT4 offer a number of submodes with different spacings
between tone frequencies.  JT65A, with 2.69 Hz tone spacing, is
generally used at 50 MHz and below.  JT65B (5.38 Hz) is used on 144
and 432 MHz, and JT65C (10.77 Hz) on 1296 MHz.  The B and C submodes
are slightly less sensitive than mode A, but progressively more
tolerant of frequency drifts and Doppler spread.  In a similar way,
JT4 submodes A through G offer tone spacings between 4.375 Hz and 315
Hz.  See the <<PROTOCOLS,Protocol Specifications>> section, especially
<<SLOW_TAB,Table 2>>, for details.

The JT65 and JT4 decoders use multi-layered procedures.  If the fully
general decoder fails, a deeper search can be made using a
matched-filter or *Deep Search* approach.  The *Deep Search* decoder
constructs a list of hypothetical messages by pairing each entry in
the callsign database with CQ and with the home callsign of the user.
Each trial message is encoded as it would be done at the transmitter,
including all of the forward error-control (FEC) symbols.  The
resulting patterns are then tested for good match with the received
symbol spectra.  Even a single-character mismatch will prevent a
decoding from being achieved. You can define the list of likely
callsigns in any way you choose.  A default callsign database named
+CALL3.TXT+ is provided with _WSJT_, containing the calls of over 5000
stations known to have been active in weak-signal work on the VHF/UHF
bands.  If you use the Deep Search decoder, keep your callsign list up
to date and adapt it to your own requirements.

In addition to *DT* and *DF*, the decoders in _WSJT_ provide useful
information on the relative strength of synchronization, the average
signal-to-noise ratio in dB (relative to the noise power in 2500 Hz
bandwidth), and *W*, the measured frequency width of the sync signal,
in Hz.  A symbol following *W* indicates that an adequate level of
synchronization has been achieved: +***+ will be displayed for a
normal message, and +*#*+ for a message including the OOO signal
report.  Two numbers appear at the end of each line.  The first tells
whether the generalized soft-decision decoder succeeded (1) or failed
(0).  The second gives a relative confidence level on a 0 to 10 scale
for results produced by the Deep Search decoder.  Shorthand messages
do not produce these numbers.

If a JT65 or JT4 transmission synchronizes correctly, its spectral
information is added into an accumulating array.  Spectra from
subsequent transmissions are added into this array and can make it
possible to decode the average, even if individual transmissions were
not decodable.  Results of such decoding attempts appear in the
*Average Text* window.

The *Deep Search* decoder necessarily has a gray area in which it
finds a likely solution but may have only moderate confidence in it.
In such cases the decoder appends a *?* to the decoded text.

TIP: As operator you must make always the final decision as to
whether the decoding is believable.  The mathematical message
structure means that incorrect decodings will not differ from the
correct one in only a few characters; more likely, they will contain
wholly incorrect callsigns and grid locators.  As you gain experience
with the graphical and numerical indications of proper message
synchronization (*Sync*, *dB*, *DT*, *DF*, *W*, and the green, red,
and blue curves in the graphical area), as well as the effects of
birdies and other interference, you will become adept at recognizing
and rejecting the occasional false decodes.  

IMPORTANT: If it appears that an unexpected (and perhaps exotic) station
is calling you, treat it with suspicion until you decode the message
again in a subsequent transmission.  Random decoding errors will
seldom repeat themselves.

Several options are available for adjusting the JT65 decoding
procedure to your liking.  If you check *Decode | JT65 | Only EME
calls*, only a subset of callsigns in the database that include an
``EME'' flag will be used in the Deep Search procedure.  Check *No
Shorthands if Tx 1* if you wish to suppress shorthand decodings when
you are still transmitting the first Tx message.  The *Decode | JT65*
sub-menu offers four options for the Deep Search decoder.  The first,
*No Deep Search*, disables this feature entirely.  *Normal Deep
Search* turns it on but suppresses output with confidence levels less
than 3, while *Aggressive Deep Search* allows output down to level 1.
The last option, *Include Average in Aggressive Deep Search*, applies
the Deep Search procedure to the accumulating average as well as the
most recently received data.

JT65 shorthand messages are powerful because they can be decoded at
signal levels about 5 dB below those required for standard messages.
They can also be decoded by ear, or by eye directly from the SpecJT
waterfall display.  If a message starts with RO, RRR, or 73 followed
by a space, the shorthand format will be sent.  If the message
satisfies the requirements for a structured message, the specified
callsigns, CQ, QRZ, locator, report and/or prefix/suffix will be
encoded and sent.  With any other entry, 13 characters of arbitrary
text will be encoded and sent.  The actual message being transmitted
is always displayed in the bottom right corner of the main screen.
Yellow highlighting indicates a standard message, blue a shorthand
message, and red a plain text message.
