By longstanding tradition, a minimal valid QSO requires the exchange
of callsigns, a signal report or some other information, and
acknowledgments.  _WSJT_ is designed to facilitate making such minimal
QSOs under difficult conditions, and the process can be made easier if
you follow standard operating practices.  The recommended procedure is
as follows:

. If you have received less than both calls from the other station,
send both calls.

. If you have received both calls, send both calls and a signal report.

. If you have received both calls and a report, send R plus your
signal report.

. If you have received R plus signal report, send RRR.

. If you have received RRR -- that is, a definite acknowledgment of
all of your information -- the QSO is complete.  However, the other
station may not know this, so it is conventional to send 73 (or some
other conversational information) to signify that you are done.

Slightly different procedures may be used in different parts of the
world, or in the different operating modes.  Hitting the *F5* key will
cause _WSJT_ to display a screen that reminds you of the recommended
procedures.

To prepare for making a QSO, enter the other station's callsign in the
*To radio* box and click *Lookup* and *GenStdMsgs* to generate a
sequence of the commonly used messages.  If *Lookup* does not find the
callsign in the database file CALL3.TXT, you may enter the grid
locator manually.  Decide whether you or the other station will
transmit first, and check or uncheck *Tx First* appropriately.  Select
the message for your next transmission by clicking in the small circle
to the right of the message text.  Click *Auto* to start an automatic
sequence of transmission and reception intervals.  You can switch
messages while a transmission is in progress by clicking on one of the
buttons *Tx1* to *Tx6*, to the right of the circles.

Real-time spectral information is displayed graphically on the
*SpecJT* screen.  Spectrograms normally scroll horizontally in the
``fast'' modes (FSK441, JTMS, ISCAT, and JT6M) and vertically in the
slow modes (JT4 and JT65). You can select one of several scrolling
speeds at the top right of the *SpecJT* window.

At the end of each receiving period, _WSJT_ enters a decode cycle and
displays various properties of a received signal on the main screen.
An example for JT6M mode is shown below.  //, and examples for FSK441
and JT65 can be seen on pages 4 and 14 ###.  A green line in the main
graphical area illustrates signal strength vs. time, and other lines
or images display spectral information and synchronization results,
depending on the mode.

image::images/jt6m.png[align="center"]

Decoded text appears in the large box below the graphical area and is
also written to a cumulative output file, +ALL.TXT+.  The program's
best estimate of *DF*, a detected signal's frequency offset, is
included on each text line.  The accuracy of these estimates depends
on the mode: approximately ±5 Hz for JTMS signals, ±25 Hz for
FSK441, ±10 Hz for ISCAT and JT6M, and ±3 Hz for JT65.  Within these
tolerances (and subject to the stability of oscillators and the
propagation path) you should see consistent numbers in the *DF* column
during any QSO that produces usable signals.

Double-clicking on a callsign in either one of the decoded text
windows will cause that callsign to be copied into the *To radio* box.
The corresponding *Grid* locator will be looked up in the database and
the callsign inserted appropriately in Tx message boxes #1 and #2.  If
the decoded text line includes CQ before the selected callsign,
message Tx1 will be selected for your next transmission.  Otherwise,
Tx2 will be selected.  If *Double-click on callsign sets TxFirst* has
been checked on the *Setup* menu, the status of *Tx First* may be changed
according to the time-stamp on the decoded message.
 
=== Fast Modes

The JTMS, FSK441, ISCAT, and JT6M operating modes generally use 30 s
periods (optionally, 15 s periods) for transmission and reception.
When a reception interval is completed the program looks for signal
enhancements produced by short-lived reflections from meteor trails,
or signal peaks from other types of scatter propagation.  Usable
``pings'' are audible when they occur, and you will see them as spikes
on the green line and brighter colors in the scrolling spectrogram.
One or more lines of decoded text may result from each ping.  By
clicking in the graphical area you can force a decoding attempt at a
particular spot in a record.  You can also make the program decode in
real time, just after hearing a signal enhancement, by clicking on the
appropriate spot in the SpecJT display.

_WSJT_ attempts to compensate for relative mistuning between
transmitting and receiving stations.  By default the frequency search
range is ±400 Hz. You can reduce the tolerance range by setting the
value of *Tol* to a smaller value.  Adjustments to the decoding
parameters can be made at any time by right- or left-clicking on the
parameter labels.  *S* or *Sync* sets the minimum level for acceptable
signals.

In FSK441 mode, if *DF* lies outside the range ±100 Hz it will help
to retune your receiver to compensate.  Do this with your
transceiver's RIT control, or by using split Rx/Tx VFOs.  In the JTMS,
ISCAT, and JT6M modes you can accomplish the same thing by checking
*Freeze* and using the keyboard right/left arrows to move *Freeze DF*
(as displayed in the bottom-of-screen status bar) to the desired
value.  In general you should not change your transmitting frequency
during a QSO, since your partner will be trying to tune you in at the
same time.

In addition to the green line for overall signal strength, JT6M
produces a yellow line showing the detected strength of a JT6M
synchronizing tone (see illustration above).  JT6M attempts to decode
both individual enhancements and an ``average message'' based on the
entire transmission, or selected portions thereof.  An average message
is flagged with an asterisk at the right end of the decoded text line.
Clicking with the left mouse button decodes a 4 s block of data near
the mouse pointer, while the right button decodes a 10 s segment.  As
in FSK441, with marginal signals you should experiment as necessary
for best decoding.  ISCAT and JT6M can work with signals many dB
weaker than those required for JTMS and FSK441.  You will sometimes
find that clicking on a smooth green line, even where nothing was
heard and nothing can be seen, causes callsigns or other information
to pop up out of the noise.

Standard messages in FSK441 and JT6M are generated with the aid of
templates defined on the *Setup | Options* screen.  Default
templates are provided conforming to standard operating practices in
North America and Europe, and you can edit the templates to suit your
own requirements.  Your edits will be saved on program termination and
restored when you restart _WSJT_.  Normal FSK441 and JT6M messages can
contain any arbitrary text up to 28 characters.  The supported
character set includes 0-9, A-Z, plus . , / # ? $ and <space>.  

JTMS and FSK441 provide a special shorthand format to transmit a few
simple messages in a highly efficient way.  The supported shorthands
are R26, R27, RRR, and 73; FSK441 and JTMS send pure tones at 882,
1323, 1764, or 2205 Hz to convey these messages. If activity levels
are high enough that there could be some doubt about who has
transmitted a shorthand message, it is better to use normal messages
tagged with callsigns or portions thereof.  Check *Rx ST* and *Tx ST*
enable single-tone messages.

A typical minimal QSO in FSK441 or JT6M modes might look
something like the following: 

------------
1.  CQ K1ABC
2.                  K1ABC W9XYZ
3.  W9XYZ K1ABC 27 
4.                  K1ABC W9XYZ R26 
5.  W9XYZ K1ABC RRR
6.                  K1ABC W9XYZ 73
------------

Shorthand messages R26, RRR and 73 can be substituted for messages 4,
5, and 6.  Step ahead to the next message in your sequence only when
you have received your QSO partner's information from his sequence.

=== Slow Modes

The slow modes in _WSJT-X_ (JT65 and JT4) help to facilitate minimal
QSOs by using short structured messages.  The process works best if
you use these formats and follow standard operating practices.  The
recommended basic QSO goes something like this:

------------
1.  CQ K1ABC FN42
2.                    K1ABC G0XYZ IO91
3.  G0XYZ K1ABC -19
4.                    K1ABC G0XYZ R-22
5.  G0XYZ K1ABC RRR
6.                    K1ABC G0XYZ 73
-------------

*Standard messages* consist of two callsigns (or CQ, QRZ, or DE and
one callsign) followed by the transmitting station's grid locator, a
signal report, R plus a signal report, or the final acknowledgements
RRR or 73. JT65 and JT4 compress and encode these messages in a highly
efficient and reliable way.  In uncompressed form they may contain as
many as 18 characters.

*Signal reports* are specified as signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) in dB,
using a standard reference noise bandwidth of 2500 Hz.  Thus, in
example message #0003 above, K1ABC is telling G0XYZ that his signal is
19 dB below the noise power in bandwidth 2500 Hz.  In message #0004,
G0XYZ acknowledges receipt of that report and responds with a -22 dB
signal report.  JT65 reports are constrained to lie in the range -30
to -1 dB, while JT9 supports the extended range -50 to +49 dB.

*Free Text Messages*: Users often add some friendly chit-chat at the
end of a QSO.  Free-format messages such as ``TNX ROBERT 73'' or ``5W
VERT 73 GL'' are supported, up to a maximum of 13 characters,
including spaces.  (Normally you should avoid the character / in
free-text messages, since the program may try to interpret your
construction as part of a compound callsign.)  It should be obvious
that the JT9 and JT65 protocols are not well suited for extensive
conversations or rag-chewing.

TIP: Signals become visible on the waterfall around S/N = -26 dB and
audible to someone with good hearing around -15 dB. 

.Submodes

JT65 and JT4 have a number of submodes with different spacing between
transmitted tone frequencies.  JT65A is generally used at 50 MHz and below,
JT65B on 144 and 432 MHz, and JT65C on 1296 MHz.  The B and C submodes
are slightly less sensitive than mode A, but progressively more
tolerant of frequency drifts and Doppler spread.

JT65 uses 60 s transmission and reception intervals. An incoming
signal is analyzed when the receiving sequence is complete.  As shown
in the screen shot below, the resulting graphical display includes red
and blue lines along with the green line.  The additional curves
summarize the program's attempts to synchronize with the received
signal in frequency (red) and time (blue), both of which are necessary
steps in decoding the message.  You can set the minimum synchronizing
threshold with the *Sync* parameter (default value = 1).  Proper
synchronization is indicated by a sharp upward spike in the red curve
and a broader peak on the blue curve.  Locations of the peaks
correspond to time and frequency offsets, *DT* and *DF*, between
transmitter and receiver. EME signals have propagation delays of about
2.5 s and can have significant Doppler shifts.  Along with clock and
frequency errors, these effects contribute to the measured values of
DT and DF.

//image::images/jt65.png[align="center"]

JT65 is tolerant of frequency offsets up to ±600 Hz.  Unless the
red spike is close to the left or right edge of the plot area,
retuning with RIT is not necessary.  However on bands above 432 MHz,
where EME Doppler shifts can amount to several kHz or more, you may
need to use RIT or split VFOs in order to acquire the desired signal.
Once the program has synchronized on a JT65 signal, it's best to click
on the red spike or on the sync tone in the SpecJT waterfall, check
*Freeze*, and reduce *Tol* to 100 Hz or less.  Then, in subsequent
decoding attempts, _WSJT_ will search a range of frequencies only ±
*Tol* Hz around the selected *Freeze DF*.

In JT65 mode, double-clicking on the SpecJT waterfall or on the red
curve in the main window sets *Freeze DF* to the selected frequency,
turns *Freeze* on, sets *Tol* to 50 Hz, and invokes the decoder.
Using this handy feature, you can quickly decode a transmission at
several different values of *DF*.  Colored vertical tick marks on the
SpecJT frequency scale indicate the current setting of *Freeze DF* and
the corresponding upper edge of the JT65 bandwidth (green ticks), and
the frequencies of the shorthand message tones (red ticks).  A
horizontal green bar indicates the search range specified by *Tol* and
centered on *Freeze DF*.

The JT65 decoder uses a multi-layered procedure.  A full description
of how it works was published in {jt65protocol}.  If the Reed Solomon
decoder fails, a deeper search can be made using a matched-filter
approach.  The decoder constructs a list of hypothetical messages by
pairing each entry in the callsign database with CQ and with the home
callsign of the user.  Each trial message is encoded as it would be
done at the transmitter, including all of the forward error-control
(FEC) symbols.  The resulting patterns are then tested for good match
with the received wave file.  Even a single-character mismatch will
prevent a decoding from being achieved. You can define the list of
likely callsigns in any way you choose.  A default callsign database
named +CALL3.TXT+ is provided with _WSJT_, containing the calls of
over 4800 stations known to have been active in weak-signal work on
the VHF/UHF bands.  You should keep your list up to date and adapt it
to your own requirements.

In addition to *DT* and *DF*, decoded text lines provide information
on the relative strength of synchronization, the average
signal-to-noise ratio in dB relative to the noise power in 2500 Hz
bandwidth, and *W*, the measured frequency width of the sync signal,
in Hz.  A symbol following *W* indicates that an adequate level of
synchronization has been achieved: +*+ will be displayed for a normal
message, and +#+ for a message including the OOO signal report.  Two
numbers appear at the end of each line.  The first tells whether the
soft-decision Reed Solomon decoder succeeded (1) or failed (0).  The
second number gives a relative confidence level on a 0 to 10 scale for
results produced by the Deep Search decoder.  Shorthand messages do
not produce these numbers.

If a JT65 transmission synchronizes correctly, its spectral
information is added into an accumulating array.  Spectra from
subsequent transmissions added into this array can make it possible to
decode the average, even if individual transmissions were not
decodable.  Results of such decoding attempts appear in the *Average
Text* window.

The *Deep Search* decoder necessarily has a ``grey area'' in which it
finds a solution but may have only moderate confidence in it.  In such
cases the decoder appends a ? to the decoded text, and the
operator must make the final decision as to whether the decoding is
believable.  Be aware that because of the mathematical message
structure, incorrect decodings will not differ from the correct one in
only a few characters; more likely, they will contain wholly incorrect
callsigns and grid locators.  As you gain experience in recognizing
the graphical and numerical indications of proper message
synchronization (*Sync*, *dB*, *DT*, *DF*, *W*, and the green, red,
and blue curves), as well as the effects of birdies and other
interference, you will become adept at recognizing and rejecting the
occasional false decodes.  If it appears that an unexpected (and
perhaps exotic) station is calling you, wait until you decode the
message again in a subsequent transmission.  Random decoding errors
will seldom repeat themselves.

Several options are available for adjusting the JT65 decoding
procedure to your liking.  If you check *Decode | JT65 | Only EME
calls*, only a subset of callsigns in the database that include an
EME flag will be used in the Deep Search procedure.  Check *No
Shorthands if Tx 1* if you wish to suppress shorthand decodings when
you are still transmitting the first Tx message.  The *Decode | JT65*
sub-menu offers four options for the Deep Search decoder.  The first,
*No Deep Search*, disables it entirely.  *Normal Deep Search* turns it
on but suppresses output with confidence levels less than 3, and
*Aggressive Deep Search* allows output down to level 1.  The last
option, *Include Average in Aggressive Deep Search*, applies the Deep
Search procedure to the accumulating average as well as the most
recently received data. 

The JT65 shorthand messages are powerful because they can be decoded
at signal levels about 5 dB below those required for standard
messages.  (In fact, they can often be decoded by ear, or by eye
directly from the SpecJT waterfall display.)  If a message starts with
RO, RRR, or 73 followed by one or more spaces, the shorthand format
will be sent.  If the message satisfies the requirements for a Type 1
message, the specified callsigns, CQ, QRZ, prefix, locator, and/or
report will be encoded and sent as entered.  With any other entry, 13
characters of arbitrary text will be encoded and sent.  The actual
message being transmitted is always displayed in the bottom right
corner of the main screen.  Yellow highlighting indicates a standard
message, blue a shorthand message, and red a JT65 plain text message.

.Compound Callsigns

Compound callsigns such as xx/K1ABC or K1ABC/x are handled in one of
two possible ways.  A list of about 350 of the most common prefixes
and suffixes can be displayed from the *Help* menu.  A single compound
callsign involving one item from this list can be used in place of the
standard third message word (normally a locator, signal report, RRR,
or 73).  Thus, the following examples are all acceptable *Type 1*
messages with compound callsigns:

 CQ ZA/K1ABC
 CQ K1ABC/4
 ZA/K1ABC G0XYZ
 G0XYZ K1ABC/4

The following messages are _not_ valid, because a third word is not
permitted in a *Type 1* message:

 ZA/K1ABC G0XYZ -22        #These messages will be sent
 G0XYZ K1ABC/4 73          #without the third "word"

A QSO between two stations using *Type 1* compound-callsign messages
might look like this:

----------------
1.  CQ ZA/K1ABC
2.                      ZA/K1ABC G0XYZ
3.  G0XYZ K1ABC -19
4.                      K1ABC G0XYZ R-22
5.  G0XYZ K1ABC RRR
6.                      K1ABC G0XYZ 73
----------------

Notice that both operators send and receive the full compound
callsign in the first two transmissions.  After that, they omit the
add-on prefix or suffix and use the standard structured messages.

Prefixes and suffixes _not_ found in the short displayable list can be
handled with a *Type 2* message.  The compound callsign must be the
second word in a two- or three-word message, and the first word must
be CQ, DE, or QRZ.  Prefixes can be 1 to 4 characters, suffixes 1 to 3
characters.  A third word conveying a locator, report, RRR, or 73 is
permitted.  The following are valid *Type 2* messages with compound
callsigns:

 CQ W4/G0XYZ FM07
 DE W4/G0XYZ -22
 QRZ K1ABC/VE6 DO33

In each case, the message is treated as *Type 2* because the add-on
prefix or suffix is _not_ one of those in the fixed list.  Note
that a second callsign is never permissible in these messages.

TIP: Remember that during a transmission your transmitted message is
always displayed in the first label on the *Status Bar*, highlighted
in yellow.  It is displayed there exactly as another station would
receive it.

QSOs involving *Type 2* compound callsigns might look like either
of the following sequences

 CQ KP4/K1ABC FK68
                     K1ABC G0XYZ IO91
 G0XYZ K1ABC -19
                     K1ABC G0XYZ R-22
 G0XYZ K1ABC RRR
                     K1ABC G0XYZ 73


 CQ K1ABC FN42
                     DE G0XYZ/W4 FM18
 G0XYZ K1ABC -19
                     K1ABC G0XYZ R-22
 G0XYZ K1ABC RRR
                     DE G0XYZ/W4 73

Each operator sends his own compound callsign in the first (and
possibly also last) transmission, as may be required by licensing
authorities.  Subsequent transmissions may use the standard structured
messages without callsign prefix or suffix.

IMPORTANT: It's up to you, the operator, to ensure that messages with
compound callsigns are composed in the manner described above.
Double-clicking on a line of decoded text may not always produce the
desired result.

=== CW Mode

The _WSJT_ CW mode is provided as a convenience for operators
attempting EME contacts using timed transmissions of 1, 2, or 2.5
minutes duration. The program sends EME-style messages by keying an
800 Hz audio tone, and takes care of the timing and T/R
switching. Receiving is left up to you, the operator. Select the
desired CW speed under *Miscellaneous* on the *Setup | Options*
window, and the T/R period by right- or left-clicking on the label at
bottom center of the main window. Present conventions typically use 1
minute sequences on 50 MHz, either 1 or 2 minutes on 144 MHz, and 2.5
minutes on 432 MHz and above.
