=== Options Window
- Start _WSJT_ and select *Options* from its *Setup* menu.  Enter
the following information on the *Options* window:

- *My Call*: <Your Call Sign>

- *Grid Locator*: <Your 6-digit Maidenhead locator>

- *ID Interval*: set the time interval for sending your CW identification. 
Zero (0) means never.

- *PTT port*: if you will use RTS or DTR for T/R control, choose a
serial port.  On Windows enter the number of the port (for example 1
if you will use COM1).  Enter 0 if you will use VOX control (not
recommended if you will be running high power).  On Linux or FreeBSD
enter the actual device name, for example +/dev/ttyS0+.

- *PTT Line*: choose *DTR* or *RTS*.

- *Distance unit*: choose miles or kilometers.

[[FigOptions]]
image::images/options.png[align="center"] 

- The black-background console window labeled *WSJT 10* offers a menu
of choices for *Audio In* and *Audio Out* devices.  On the *Options*
screen, enter an *Audio Device* number that provides at least 2 input
channels for *Audio In*, and at least 2 output channels for *Audio
Our* -- for example, Audio devices number 1 and 4 selected from the
following screen shot:

[[FigConsole]]
image::images/console.png[align="center"]

- You may now dismiss the *Options* screen and minimize the console
window.

=== Main Window

- Select *FSK441* from the *Mode* menu on the main window.

- Select *Open* from the *File* menu and navigate to the
+RxWav\Samples+ folder in your _WSJT_ home directory. Open the sample
file W8WN_010809_110400.wav.  Your main screen should look something
like the image below.  Try clicking with the right mouse button around
the location of the ping at time t = 18 s on the graphical display,
and observe the decoded text that appears.  If you click on the static
crashes around t = 1 s or elsewhere on the green line, you may see
garbage text.  Click *Erase* to clear the text and graphical areas.
You can click *Decode* to decode the full file again.

[[FigMainScreen]]
image::images/wsjt9.7_main.png[align="center",width=650]

- Take note of two numbers in the first panel of the status bar at
lower left of the main screen.  After _WSJT_ has been running for a
minute or so they should stabilize at values close to 1.0000.  If both
numbers are between 0.9995 and 1.0005, the effective input and output
sampling rates of your soundcard are close to the nominal 11025 Hz.
If either number is outside this range, enter it as *Rate in* (first
number) or *Rate out* (second number) on the *Setup | Options* screen.
_WSJT_ will then make necessary adjustments for the incorrect sampling
rate or rates.


=== Transceiver Setup
.Receiver Noise Level

- Turn on your radio, select *USB* (or *USB Data*) mode, and tune to a
clear frequency so that only background noise is sent to the sound
card.

- If necessary, click the *Monitor* button on the _WSJT_ main window
to start normal receive operation (button should be highlighted in
[green]*GREEN*). 

- Open the operating system's audio mixer and adjust its slider and/or
your receiver gain control(s) to bring the signal level close to what
_WSJT_ considers ``0 dB,'' as indicated on the bar graph at lower
right of the *SpecJT* screen.  The signal level is also displayed
numerically on the status bar at bottom of the main window.

.Transmitter Audio Level

- Click *Generate messages for test tones* on the *Setup* menu.

- Click the *Tx5* button to be sure that T/R switching works and that
a continuous 1000 Hz audio tone is sent from the computer to your
radio.

- Listen to the generated audio tone using your radioâ€™s *Monitor*
facility. The transmitted tone should be smooth and continuous, with no
clicks or glitches.

- Adjust the appropriate slider on the operating system's audio mixer
to get the proper audio signal level for your transmitter.

- Click *TxStop* to end your test transmission. 

_WSJT_ should now be set up and ready to operate.  Be aware, however,
that _WSJT_ is a complicated program.  It has many operational
nuances, especially ones having to do with the correct decoding of
received signals.  If you are a new _WSJT_ user, it is strongly
recommended that you work through the decoding tutorial in the next
section.

////////////////
CAUTION: WSJT generates a single-frequency sine wave at any instant while
transmitting.  Except during CW ID there is no ``key up'' time; signal
amplitude is constant, and one tone changes to the next one in a
phase-continuous manner.  As a result, WSJT does not require a high
degree of linearity in your power amplifier. You can use a class C
amplifier without generating unwanted sidebands or splatter.  Full
amplitude transmissions lasting 30 seconds or longer will put more
stress on your final amplifier than SSB or CW operation.  If this
would cause the amplifier to overheat, you should take appropriate
action: reduce power or add another cooling fan or blower.
//////////////

[[FONTS]]
=== Fonts

You are offered some control over the fonts and colors used in _WSJT_.
A text file named +wsjtrc.win+ (on Windows) or +wsjtrc+ (on Linux and
FreeBSD) is supplied with the following contents:

 *font:				Arial 8
 *Label*font:			Arial 8
 *Text*font:			"Courier New" 9
 *background:			gray85
 *Text*background:		white
 *Entry*background:		white
 *foreground:			black
 *Listbox*foreground:	        RoyalBlue

You can edit this file with a text editor (such as Windows Notepad).
For example, to make the on-screen fonts slightly larger you can
increase the numbers on the first three lines to 9, 9, and 10.  It
might be wise to save a backup of the original file under a different
name, in case you need to restore the original contents.

