=== Basics

Decoding procedures are different for the various _WSJT_ modes, and it
helps to practice with a new mode before using it on the air.  As a
useful starting point:

- Select *FSK441* from the *Mode* menu on the main window.

- Select *File | Open*,navigate to the +RxWav\Samples+ folder in your
_WSJT_ home directory, and open the sample file
+W8WN_010809_110400.wav+.  Your main screen should look something like
the image below.  The larger graphical area displays a spectrogram in
which time increases from left to right and frequency from bottom to
top.  The green curve below the spectrogram shows total power over the
full received bandwidth.  In FSK441 mode, the smaller graphical area
at right displays average spectra of the full record (magenta) and of
the strongest detected ``ping'' (red).

[[FigMainWindow]]
image::images/wsjt9.7_main.png[align="center",width=650]

- Click with the right mouse button around the location of the ping at
time t = 18 s on the graphical display, and observe the decoded text
that appears.  (The file time corresponding to the location of the
mouse pointer is displayed in a green label at lower left of the plot
area.)

- Click on the static crashes around t = 1 s or elsewhere on the green
line.  You will probably see garbage text.  

- You may find it instructive to use Windows Media Player (or the
equivalent program for your operating system) to play these audio
files and listen to the signals.  The example file
+W8WN_010809_110400.wav+ starts with a burst of summertime QRN and
then has nothing but background noise until a moderately strong
ping -- a burst of FSK441 signal -- appears some 18 seconds later.

To follow the full tutorial, which is strongly recommended, you must
first obtain the collection of sample wave files available for
{samples_windows} or {samples_linux}.  These files contain recordings
of real signals in typical on-the-air situations for each of the
_WSJT_ modes.

- Extract the files to a suitable location such as +..\RxWav\Samples+
under your _WSJT_ installation directory.

- If you have already installed and used a version of _WSJT_, delete
your +WSJT.INI+ file or temporarily rename it to something else. This
will ensure that you start the tutorial with everything in the default
configuration.

- Start _WSJT_ and position the main window conveniently on your
screen.

=== Fast Modes

It's convenient to think of the WSJT protocols in two groups -- fast
and slow.  The fast modes (JTMS, FSK441, ISCAT, and JT65) send text
messages character-by-character, without forward error correctiion, at
rates ranging from nearly 200 characters per second (JTMS) down to
about 14 cps (JT6M).  JTMS and FSK441 attempt to make the best
possible use the common but very short pings or meteor scatter, with
durations around 0.1 s and even less.  ISCAT and JT6M perform well
with brief but somewhat longer signal enhancements, including those
characteristic of meteor/ionospheric scatter at 50 and 70 MHz, and of
scatter from airplanes at 10 GHz.  The fast modes generally use T/R
sequences of length 30 s, with 15 s as an option.

.JTMS

- Select *JTMS* from the mode menu.

- Set ping threshold *S* = 1 and frequency tolerance *Tol* = 25.
These controls can be adjusted upward or downward by left- or
right-clicking with the mouse.

- Select menu item *File | Open*, navigate to subdirectory
+...\RxWav\Samples\JTMS+ under your installation directory, and open
either of the files there.  _WSJT_ generally does a good job of
finding and decoding *JTMS* pings by itself.  The message +K1JT N5SIX+
is correctly decoded for three different pings in each of these two
files.  Each line of decoded text also contains the starting time of
the transmission (also used as the last part of the file name), the
time *T* of each detected ping, the ping *Width* in ms, the
signal-plus-noise to noise ratio (S+N)/N in *dB*, a suggested signal
report *Rpt* using meteor-scatter conventions, and the measured
frequency offset *DF*.

TIP: If the ping duration is sufficient for message repetitions to be
recognizable, the decoder attempts to average over them.  If it
considers the attempt successful, the average message is displayed with 
an asterisk +*+ appended at the end of line.

- Note that *DF* for these signals is about +22 Hz.  Checking *Freeze*
will force the decoder to cover only a specified range, *Freeze DF* 
± *Tol*.  (The value of *Freeze DF* is displayed in the *Status Bar*;
it can be changed in ±5 Hz increments with function keys *F11*
and *F12*.)  Once you have identified the signal of a QSO partner, it
is usually best to set *Freeze DF* to the signal's measured *DF* and
to check the *Freeze* box.

- Experiment with different settings of *Freeze*, *Freeze DF*, and
*Tol*.  Click *Decode* after each change to observe the results.

- You can also click on the spectrogram to decode signal present at a
particular time.  Such action will sometimes decode a signal that
failed to decode automatically.

.FSK441

- Switch to FSK441 mode and open the file +K5CZD_050723_134100.WAV+.
The decoder produces the following text in the main text box:

 O1JT 26 K5CZD 2626 K1JT 27 K5CZ #6

- K5CZD is sending K1JT the signal report 26.  In FSK441 mode it
is not uncommon to see some incorrect characters, especially near the
ends of decoded sequences where the signal is weak.

- Hit the *F6* key (or select *File | Open next in directory*) to open
and decode successive files in the FSK441 directory.  These files
contain recordings of K8EB calling KB4BWW, KC0HLN calling CQ and
working K1JT, KM5ES working K1JT, KM5PO calling K1JT as a tailender,
and N9EGT calling CQ.  In any of these files you should try left- and
right-clicking on the pings to invoke the decoder at a particular
location in the file.  

- Try clicking on pure noise, away from any ping; you will then see
only garbage as output.

- Click *Erase* or *Decode* at any time to clear the display areas and
decode the most recently analyzed file again.

- Open the first KC0HLN file again.  It produces the message +CQ
KC0HLN EN32 CQ KC0HLN...+, plus some garbage characters.  Double-click
on the callsign KC0HLN in the text window, and observe what happens in
the Tx message boxes.  The program is now ready for K1JT to answer the
CQ from KC0HLN.

.ISCAT

- Switch to mode *ISCAT-B* and open any file in the
+...\Samples\ISCAT-B+ subdirectory.  These files contain examples of
ionospheric scatter signals on 6 meters; although the signals are
inaudible most of the time, they decode readily in each case.

- You can instruct the ISCAT decoder to concentrate on a particular
portion of a received sequence.  Left-click to decode in a region
slightly over 2 s either side of the mouse pointer.  Left-click to
decode from the start of the transmission to the mouse pointer.  Swipe
using the left mouse button to decode over any desired range.  

- Open the file +K0AWU_100714_120200.wav+.  The spectrogram shows
little sign of any signal except for weak enhancements around t = 2.1
and t = 5.5 s.  Nothing is visible (or audible) after about t = 8 s.
Nevertheless, try a swipe-to-decode between, say, 9 and 25 s.  The
message *THUNDER* should be decoded flawlessly.

- Switch now to mode *ISCAT-A* and examine files in the
+...\Samples\ISCAT-B+ subdirectory.  VK7MO and VK3HZ are completing a
10 GHz QSO over a 600 km path, using low power, small dishes, and
airplane-scatter propagation.  The signals are barely audible, if at
all, but they decode well.

TIP: Since usable ISCAT signals are often well below the noise,
strengths are given as S/N rather than (S+N)/N. Parameter *F1* is the
measured frequency drift rate; normally it should be 0 at 50 MHz and
below, but it may have significance at microwave frequencies.  The
four numbers following each decoded message give the detected message
length in characters (including the invisible beginning-of-message
character); the worst-case confidence level for any character in the
decoded message, on a 0-10 scale; the average confidence level for all
characters in the message, on the same 0-10 scale; and the length in
seconds of a selected data segment yielding highest confidence levels.
These numbers have been useful in optimizing the ISCAT decoder; they
may be removed in future.

.JT6M

- Switch to mode JT6M and open file +AA(MY_030323_142300.wav+ in the
JT6M subdirectory.  You should see decoded text +9MY 73 DE AA9MF2+
which, after suitable rotation, is the message +73 DE AA9MY+.

- Try left-clicking near t = 14.7 or 15.0 s.  You should see the
average message +73 DE AA9MY+ decoded properly (perhaps with a
rotation). Averaged messages are indicated by an asterisk +*+ near the
end of line, followed by the deduced message length.

- Hit *F6* to read and decode subsequent files in the JT6M directory.
You should see AC5TM working K1SIX, AF4O working K1JT, and WA5UFH
working K0AWU.  In several files the signals are inaudible or barely
audible, yet still decodable.  The second AF4O file produces no
decoded text by default, but try right-clicking at t = 16.8 s.  You
should be able to find several other examples of decodable text in
flat regions on the green curve.  For example, try left-clicking at 
t = 7.4 s or t = 9.8 s in the first AF4O file, or at t = 11.6 s in 
the second AF4O file.

=== Slow Modes

The _WSJT_ slow modes are designed for propagation conditions where
signals are very weak -- perhaps averaging 10 dB or more below the
audible threshold -- but more or less steady.  These modes use strong
error-control coding, so the software generally decodes messages 
exactly as they were sent (or not at all).  T/R sequence lengths are
usually one minute.

.JT65A

- Switch to mode JT65A and clear the *Freeze* setting.  You should now
pay some attention to the *SpecJT* screen as well as the main _WSJT_
screen.  (Select *View | SpecJT* if you have previously minimized or
deleted it.)  If the SpecJT and _WSJT_ windows overlap on your screen,
you can reduce the vertical size of the SpecJT window so that only its
top half shows.  

- Select *Speed 3* on the SpecJT window and check the following items on
the *SpecJT | Options* menu: *Mark T/R boundaries*, *Flatten 
spectra*, *Mark JT65 tones only if Freeze is checked*, and *JT65 DF axis*.

- Select *File | Open* on the main window, navigate to the JT65A
directory, and open the file +F9HS_031120_074800.wav.  The SpecJT
screen will show a messy spectrum cluttered with birdies at 100 Hz
intervals and other interfering signals.  However, the red curve in
the main-screen graphical area shows a strong JT65 sync tone amongst
the clutter, and the decoder produces

 074800 2 -20 2.6 361  3 *   K1JT F9HS JN23      1  0

- Double-click on F9HS in the text window.  You should see F9HS copied
into the *To Radio* box; the database will be searched and the grid
locator retrieved, if available. Tx messages will be generated for a
QSO with F9HS, and the Tx message pointer will be set to message
number 2 so that the signal report OOO will be sent.  During actual
operation, all of this can take place in the few seconds near the end
of a reception interval, before you start transmitting again.

- Hit F6 to open the next file.  A smaller red spike appears, and you
will see that G3FPQ is calling W7GJ: 

 131900 1 -25 1.5 43 3 *    W7GJ G3FPQ IO91     1  0

.JT65B

- Select JT65B from the *Mode* menu.  Then select *File | Open*,
navigate to inside the JT65B directory, and open the DL7UAE file.  The
waterfall shows a strong birdie at DF = 783 Hz and several weaker
signals.  The ones at DF = 223 and DF = 244 Hz look most interesting
because they seem to show the speckled pattern typical of a JT65
signal.

image::images/SpecJT_DL7UAE.png[align="center",width=650]

- _WSJT_ chooses the signal at DF = 223 Hz as the most
promising, and decodes it to reveal DL7UAE answering a CQ from K1JT.

image::images/jt65.png[align="center",width=650]

- The red curve shows a second spike that looks almost as good as the
DL7UAE signal. Experiment to see if you can determine who else might
be calling.  (The answer and how to find it are given below, at the
end of this section.)

- When you are ready to continue, clear *Freeze* and *AFC* (you may
also want to click *Erase* and *Clr Avg*) and hit *F6* to open the
next file.  The green curve shows some nasty SSB QRM starting at t =
5.3 s into the file.  (Again, you might want to listen to this file.)
Some rhythmic broadband noise is also present, showing clearly on the
green line.  Fortunately, the waterfall looks nearly clean in the
important JT65 spectral region, and _WSJT_ has no problem decoding the
signal at DF = -46 Hz.  EA5SE is sending K1JT the OOO signal report.

  000400 2 -25 2.9 -46 3 # K1JT EA5SE IM98 OOO 1  0 

- Try double-clicking on the sync tone in the waterfall, or on the red
spike in the main-screen graphics area.  Either action will
automatically set *Freeze DF* to the selected frequency, *Freeze* on
and *Tol* = 50 Hz, and will then invoke the decoder.  You can see on
the red curve that the sync-tone search range has been reduced to a
range ±50 Hz around the selected frequency.  

- Take note of the colored tick marks on the frequency scale at the
top of the *SpecJT* window.  The leftmost vertical green mark shows
the selected *Freeze DF*, and the horizontal band below it shows the
range that will be searched for a sync tone.  The other green tick
marks the upper limit of the JT65 data tones, and red ticks mark the
frequencies used for shorthand messages.

- Hit *F6* to open the next file.  You will see EA5SE sending K1JT the
shorthand message RRR.  Magenta and orange curves in the main-screen
graphics area show the measured average spectra for two distinct
phases of the shorthand message cycle.  In the waterfall display you
should see the alternating tones for RRR accurately aligned with the
sync-tone marker and the second red marker.  Hit the *F6* key once
more to decode the final transmission of this QSO, with ES5SE sending
a shorthand 73 to K1JT.

- Uncheck *Freeze* and hit *F6* again.  The waterfall shows a likely
sync tone with deep libration fading at DF = -22 Hz, and the decoder
shows EI4DQ sending K1JT the OOO signal report.  Double-click on the
sync tone in either window to lock him in, and hit *F6* to open the
next file.  Evidently EI4DQ has received the OOO report from K1JT and
is now sending RO.

- Clear the Freeze box, check *AFC*, and hit *F6* again to open the
next file.  Two birdies are in the passband, but _WSJT_ ignores them
and finds a valid sync tone at DF = 221 Hz, decoding IK1UWL sending an
OOO report to K1JT.  Uncheck *AFC* and hit *Decode*; you will notice
that the first of two numbers near the end of the decoded line changes
from 1 to 0, indicating that without *AFC* the Deep Search decoder is
required to decode this file.  Double-click on the sync tone to lock
in IK1UWL, and wait for the next transmission (i.e., hit *F6* to read
the next file).  IK1UWL has copied the report RO from K1JT, so he is
sending RRR.  Note that this shorthand message is barely visible on
the waterfall, but it is still decoded correctly.  K1JT would now send
73 to signify that the QSO is complete.

- Clear the *Freeze* and *AFC* boxes and hit *F6* to find RU1AA
calling CQ.  RU1AA has a big signal; his tones are easily audible in
this file.  In the next several files K1JT works him quickly, despite
two birdies that are drifting down through the JT65 signal passband.
Notice that as a reminder, decoded shorthand messages are always
flagged with a ``?'' mark unless you have turned Freeze on and set Tol
to 100 Hz or less -- things that you should always do, for best
decoding results.  RU1AA ends the QSO by sending the message ``TNX JOE
-14 73'' to tell K1JT that his signal peaked at -14 dB.  Since this
message does not start with two callsigns (or CQ or QRZ plus one
callsign) it is treated as a plain text message.  Such messages can
convey no more than 13 characters, so in this case the final ``73'' was
truncated.

- Clear the *Freeze* box and hit *F6* to show another big Russian
signal: RW1AY/1 is answering a CQ from K1JT.  Double-click on the sync
tone (on either window) to lock it in, and then hit *F6* to see the
messages RO, 73, and -19TNXQSO 73 in the next three transmissions.

- Were you able to decode the second station answering my CQ in the
DL7UAE file?  If so, congratulations!  If not, clear *Freeze* and go
back to *File | Open* and select the first file again.  Left-click on
the smaller red spike, check *Freeze* on, and reduce *Tol* to 10 Hz.
Then hit *Decode*, and you should see SP6GWB calling K1JT with an
excellent signal.  The DL7UAE and SP6GWB signals are separated by only
22 Hz, so most of their tones overlap in the 355 Hz passband of JT65B.
Nevertheless, the decoder copies perfectly through the resulting QRM
with the help of its robust error-correcting code.

- While you have the DL7UAE file in memory, Freeze on, Tol = 10 Hz,
and DF set on the smaller red spike, hit *F2* to open the *Setup |
Options* screen and enter your own call (or some other call) in place
of K1JT in the My Call box.  Then dismiss the *Options* screen and try
to decode the SP6GWB signal again.  You will surely fail, because for
this message successful copy was obtained as a result from the Deep
Search decoder, which is described further below.

.JT4

- Switch to mode JT4F, go to subdirectory +...Samples\JT4F+, and open
files +VK7MO_130217_105000.wav+ and +VK7MO_130217_105200.wav+
sequentially.  These are recordings of the 10 GHz EME signal of VK7MO
(70 cm dish, 10 W) made at G3WDG (2 m dish).  Nothing is visible on
the SpecJT waterfall, and neither file decodes by itself.  But _WSJT_
recognizes and saves the potentially usable JT4F signals in each file,
and produces a perfect decode in the average text window.

image::images/VK7MO_10GHz.png[align="center",width=650]

- In actual real-time practice, with *My Call* set to G3WDG 
and *Normal Deep Search* selected on the *Decode | JT4 and JT65* menu,

image::images/VK7MO_10GHz_2.png[align="center",width=650]

=== Echo Mode

Echo mode allows you to make sensitive measurements of your own echoes
from the moon, even when they are too weak to be heard. To use it,
select *Echo* from the *Mode* menu, aim your antenna at the moon, pick
a clear frequency, and toggle the *Auto* button to *ON*.  _WSJT_ will
then start cycling through the following loop:

1. Transmit a fixed tone for 2.0 s 
2. Wait about 0.5 s for start of return echo 
3. Record the received signal for 2.0 s 
4. Analyze, average, and display the results 
5. Repeat from step 1 

At the start of each transmission the frequency of the transmitted
tone can be offset randomly around a nominal value of 1500 Hz. A
number in the entry field *Dither* (under *Miscellaneous* on 
the *Setup | Options* screen) controls the magnitude of the random
offset. The observed spectrum of each echo is shifted by the *Dither*
amount before being accumulated into the average. (This procedure is
very effective in minimizing the impact of birdies in the receiver
passband. In the average spectrum, a fixed-frequency birdie is smeared
out over a frequency range equal to the *Dither* value. For an example
see the screen shot below: the red curve is the corrected echo
spectrum, while the blue curve is the raw (uncorrected) data.

 Insert figure here ...

Information displayed in the main text box gives the number *N* of
completed echo cycles, the average Level of receiver background noise
in dB, the average echo strength *Sig* in dB, its measured frequency
offset *DF* in Hz (after correction for Doppler shift), spectral
*Width* of the echo in Hz, and a relative quality indicator *Q* on a
0-10 scale. Background noise level is given with respect to the
nominal 0 dB level used for all _WSJT_ modes. Signal strength is
measured in dB relative to the noise power in a 2500 Hz passband. Low
numbers for *Q* mean that an echo has not been detected, or is
unreliable; for *Q*=0 the values of *DF* and *Width* are meaningless,
and *Sig* may be considered an upper limit. Larger values of *Q* imply
increasingly believable echo measurements. If you can hear your own
lunar echoes, you will see reliable echo numbers within a few seconds
after toggling *Auto ON*. If your echoes are 15 to 20 dB below the
audible threshold you should get significant results within a minute
or so.

=== CW Mode

The _WSJT_ CW mode is provided as a convenience for operators
attempting EME contacts using timed transmissions of 1, 2, or 2.5
minutes duration. The program sends EME-style messages by keying an
800 Hz audio tone, and takes care of the timing and T/R
switching. Receiving is left up to you, the operator. Select the
desired CW speed under *Miscellaneous* on the *Setup | Options*
window, and the T/R period by right- or left-clicking on the label at
bottom center of the main window. Present conventions typically use 1
minute sequences on 50 MHz, either 1 or 2 minutes on 144 MHz, and 2.5
minutes on 432 MHz and above.
