doc/source/quick-reference.adoc, before:

// Status=DRAFT
// this is intentionally left as a single file v.s. multiple sections to allow
// users to browse the Page Source
= AsciiDoc Quick Reference
:Author: WSJT-X Documetation Team
:Date: January 22, 2014, Copyright © CC-BY-SA 3.0 Unported
:Revision: 0.0.1
:badges:
:icons:
:numbered:
:image_dir:

// web-links
:asciidoc_help: http://www.methods.co.nz/asciidoc/userguide.html[ AsciiDoc User Guide ]
:asciidoc_cheatsheet: http://powerman.name/doc/asciidoc[ AsciiDoc Cheatsheet ]
:asciidoc_questions: http://www.methods.co.nz/asciidoc/faq.html[ AsciiDoc FAQ ]
:devsvn: http://developer.berlios.de/projects/wsjt/[Devel-SVN]
:download: http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT/wsjtx.html[ Download Page ]
:homepage: http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT/[ WSJT Home Page ]
:ntpsetup: http://www.satsignal.eu/ntp/setup.html[Network Time Protocol Setup]
:wsjtx: http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT/wsjtx.html[ WSJT-X ]
:page_source: ./source/quick-reference.txt[ Page Source ]
:cc_by_sa: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/[ Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License ]

// mail-to links
:stuart_rackman: mailto:srackham@gmail.com[ Stuart Rackham ]
:alex_efros: mailto:powerman@powerman.name[ Alex Efros ]
:devmail: mailto:wsjt-devel@lists.berlios.de[WSJT-Devel-List]

[[X1]]
== Introduction
The purpose of this guide is to provide a quick reference to commonly used
markup-up items for writing the {wsjtx} User Guide. Additional resources and
examples can be found at:

* {asciidoc_help} by {stuart_rackman}
* {asciidoc_questions} by {stuart_rackman}
* {asciidoc_cheatsheet} by {alex_efros}

[[X2]]
== Asciidoc Install

For WSJT-X documentation, only (2) dependencies are generally required:

* Python v2.7+
* Gnu source-highlight

Each OS has its own unique method of solving the dependencies. The following
sub-sections will assist in the basic installation and setup.

[[X21]]
=== Windows

Install Instructions:


==== Vista, Win7, Win8

Install Instructions:

[[X22]]
=== Linux

==== Ubuntu, Debian, Mint and relatives

Install Instructions:

==== RedHat, Fedora, CentOS, and relatives

Install Instructions:

==== Slackware

Install Instructions:

==== Linux Other

Install Instructions:

[[X23]]
=== OS X

Install Instructions:

[[X3]]
== Code Examples
.Under Construction

Code examples for frequently used itmes in WSJT-X Documentaion.

[[X31]]
=== Blocks
.Under Construction

Content needed.

[[X32]]
=== Headers
.Under Construction

Content needed.

[[X33]]
=== Links
.Under Construction

Content needed.

[[X34]]
=== Lists
.Under Construction

Content needed.

[[X35]]
=== Notes
.Under Construction

Content needed.

[[X36]]
=== Text
.Under Construction

Content needed.

[[XA1]]
== Appendix A: Credits
.Authors, Editors, Commiters
If you worked on the documentation, add yourself to the list.

* Authors: <call-sign>, <call-sign>

* Editors: <call-sign>, <call-sign>

* Commiters: <call-sign>, <call-sign>


== Appendix B: License

This work is licensed under {cc_by_sa}.

Commit message:

User Guide Updates
* mainwindow.cpp
- bumped ver#

* Updated build-doc.sh:
- name changes
- array var for electaft
- added Build Quick Reference Only option
  ./build-doc.sh quick-ref

* Corrected file ext typo: .ado to .adoc

* Started adding material to Quick Reference Guide.

** Tested all (4) build methods, no failures.



git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wsjtx@3671 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

doc/source/quick-reference.adoc, after:

// Status=DRAFT
// this is intentionally left as a single file v.s. multiple sections to allow
// users to browse the Page Source
= AsciiDoc Quick Reference
:Author: WSJT-X Documetation Team
:Date: January 22, 2014, Copyright © CC-BY-SA 3.0 Unported
:Revision: 0.0.1
:badges:
:icons:
:numbered:
:image_dir:

// web-links
:asciidoc_help: http://www.methods.co.nz/asciidoc/userguide.html[ AsciiDoc User Guide ]
:asciidoc_cheatsheet: http://powerman.name/doc/asciidoc[ AsciiDoc Cheatsheet ]
:asciidoc_questions: http://www.methods.co.nz/asciidoc/faq.html[ AsciiDoc FAQ ]
:cc_by_sa: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/[ Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License ]
:devsvn: http://developer.berlios.de/projects/wsjt/[Devel-SVN]
:download: http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT/wsjtx.html[ Download Page ]
:homepage: http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT/[ WSJT Home Page ]
:ntpsetup: http://www.satsignal.eu/ntp/setup.html[Network Time Protocol Setup]
:wsjtx: http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT/wsjtx.html[ WSJT-X ]
:page_source: ./source/quick-reference.txt[ Page Source ]

// mail-to links
:stuart_rackman: mailto:srackham@gmail.com[ Stuart Rackham ]
:alex_efros: mailto:powerman@powerman.name[ Alex Efros ]
:devmail: mailto:wsjt-devel@lists.berlios.de[WSJT-Devel-List]

[[X1]]
== Introduction
The purpose of this guide is to provide a quick reference to commonly used
markup-up items for writing the {wsjtx} User Guide. Additional resources and
examples can be found at:

* {asciidoc_help} by {stuart_rackman}
* {asciidoc_questions} by {stuart_rackman}
* {asciidoc_cheatsheet} by {alex_efros}

[[X2]]
== Asciidoc Install

For _WSJT-X_ documentation purposes, only (2) dependencies are generally
required:

* Python
* Source highlight

For most packages, the normal method of installation is through their
respective package manager. There are several reasons why we do not
want this for the _WSJT-X User Guide_:

** Most packaged applications are installed system-wide, which means standard
pivilaged (non Root / RootSudo) users update their binaries.
** Often times, distro packages are (1) or more revisions behind.
** Updating to the latest stable _AscciDoc_ version, using Mercurial, is a simple
one line command: _hg pull ; hg update ; hg upgrade_, or clone a new binary
set with _hg clone -r 8.6._ then re-link the new binary.
** Using $HOME makes working on the _WSJT-X User Guide_ portable, such as,
installing to a USB Key and allowing you to test build your work on virtually
any system that has _Python_ {amp}{amp} _Bash Enviroment_ installed.

// Several more items pending addition
_Further Edited Pending_


[[X21]]
=== Windows

Install Instructions:

==== Vista, Win7, Win8

Install Instructions:

[[X22]]
=== Linux

==== Ubuntu, Debian, Mint and relatives

Install Instructions:

==== RedHat, Fedora, CentOS, and relatives

Install Instructions:

==== Slackware

Install Instructions:

==== Linux Other

Install Instructions:

[[X23]]
=== OS X

Install Instructions:

[[X3]]
== How To Contribute
.Under Construction

=== Blocks
.Under Construction

Content needed.

=== Headers
.Under Construction

Content needed.

=== Links
.Under Construction

Content needed.

=== Lists
.Under Construction

Content needed.

=== Notes
.Under Construction

Content needed.

[[X36]]
=== Text
.Under Construction

Content needed.

[[XA1]]
== Appendix A: Credits
.Authors, Editors, Commiters
If you worked on the documentation, add yourself to the list.

* Authors: <call-sign>, <call-sign>

* Editors: <call-sign>, <call-sign>

* Commiters: <call-sign>, <call-sign>


== Appendix B: License

This work is licensed under {cc_by_sa}.
