// Status=review

_WSJT-X_ offers full CAT (Computer Aided Transceiver) control of the
relevant features of most modern transceivers.  To configure the
program for your radio, select the *Radio Tab* on the *Configuration*
window.

image::images/RadioTab.png[align="center",alt="Radio Tab"]

////
CAUTION: Unless you have selected *Monitor off at startup* under the
above tab, _WSJT-X_ expects to seize exclusive rig control upon
startup. You can prevent this by either selecting that option or by
selecting the *Monitor* button on the main window and toggle it. Once
done, _WSJT-X_ relinquishes exclusive rig control (but not the control
port or client connection itself). Since it is extremely convenient to
have all your required station programs running, which can include
radio control software, it is imperative that the operator understand
that any change in a separate radio control program can induce
unwanted effects in _WSJT-X_. If you would like to switch to another
operating mode while leaving _WSJT-X_ on in the background, simply
toggle the *Monitor* button so that _WSJT-X_ is no longer active.
////

- Select your radio from the dropdown *Rig* list. Alternatively, you
may select *DX Lab Suite Commander*, *Ham Radio Deluxe*, *Hamlib NET
rigctl*, or *OmniRig* if your radio is already configured for control
by one of those programs.  Select *None* if CAT control is not
desired.

- If *DX Lab Suite Commander*, *Ham Radio Deluxe*, or *Hamlib Net
rigctl* was selected the entry field immediately under _CAT Control_
is relabeled *Network Server*.  Leave this field blank to access the
default instance of your control program on the same computer. If the
control program runs on a different machine and/or port, you can
specify it here.  Hover the mouse pointer over the entry field for
formatting details.

- Select *OmniRig Rig 1* or *OmniRig Rig 2* to connect to an _OmniRig_
server running on the same computer. _OmniRig_ is available only for
Windows.

- Set *Poll Interval (s)* to the desired interval at which _WSJT-X_
will query your radio.  For most radios a small number (say, 1 â€“ 3
s) is suitable.  

- _CAT Control_: If controlling the radio directly rather than though
another program, make the following settings:

* Select the *Serial Port* used to communicate with your radio. 

* _Serial Port Parameters_: Set values for *Baud Rate*, *Data Bits*,
*Stop Bits*, and *Handshake* method.  Consult your radio's user guide
for the proper parameter values.

* _Force Control Settings_: A few station setups require the *RTS*
and/or *DTR* control lines to be forced high.  Check these boxes under
only if you are sure they are needed.

- _PTT Method_: select *VOX*, *CAT*, *DTR*, or *RTS* as the desired
method for T/R switching.  If your choice is *DTR*, or *RTS*, select
gthe desired serial port.

- _Transmit Audio Source_: some radios permit you to choose the
connector that will accept Tx audio.  If this choice is available,
select *Rear/Data* or *Front/Mic*.

- _Mode_: _WSJT-X_ uses upper sideband for transmitting and receiving.
Select *USB* for most radios, or *Data/Pkt* if your radio uses Data
mode to enable the rear-panel audio line input.  Select *None* if you
do not want _WSJT-X_ to change the radio's Mode setting.

- _Split Operation_: Select *Rig* to have _WSJT-X_ set your radio to
Split mode or *None* if you want to do this setting manually.  For radios
that do not support Split mode, select *Fake It* to have _WSJT-X_ 
adjust the rig frequency just before switching between Rx and Tx.

When all required settings have been made, click *Test CAT* to test
communication between _WSJT-X_ and the radio.  The button turns green
if proper communication is established.  Failure turns the button red
and displays an error message.  Toggle the *Test PTT* button to test
your selected method of T/R control.
