wsjtx/source/controls-functions-wide-graph.adoc, before:

// Status=review

The following controls appear at the bottom of the Wide Graph window.
With the exception of *JT65 nnnn JT9*, they affect only the graphical
displays — they have no effect on the decoding process.

image::images/wide-graph-controls.png[align="center",alt="Wide Graph Controls"]

- *Bins/Pixel* controls the displayed frequency resolution.  Set this
value to 1 for the highest possible resolution, or to higher numbers
to compress the spectral display. Normal operation with a convenient
window size works well at 2 to 8 bins per pixel.

- *JT65 nnnn JT9* sets the dividing point for wide-band decoding of
JT65 and JT9 signals in *JT9+JT65* mode.  The decoder looks for JT65
signals below the specified frequency and JT9 signals above it.

- *Start nnn Hz* sets the low-frequency starting point of the
waterfall frequency scale.

- *N Avg* is the number of successive FFTs to be averaged before
updating the spectral display.  Values around 5 are suitable for
normal JT9 and JT65 operation.  Adjust *N Avg* to make the waterfall
move faster or slower, as desired.

- *Zero* and *Gain* control the scaling and reference level for
waterfall colors.  Values around 0 for both parameters are usually
about right, depending on the input signal level and your own
preferences.

- *Palette* lets you select from a wide range of waterfall color
palettes.

- Check *Flatten* if you want _WSJT-X_ to compensate for a sloping or
uneven response across the received passband.

- Select *Current* or *Cumulative* for the spectrum displayed in the
bottom one-third of the Wide Graph window.  *Current* is the average
spectrum over the most recent *N Avg* FFT calculations.  *Cumulative*
is the average spectrum since the start of the present UTC minute.

Commit message:

Another major round of editing the WSJT-X User Guide.
git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc@4249 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

wsjtx/source/controls-functions-wide-graph.adoc, after:

// Status=review

The following controls appear at the bottom of the Wide Graph window.
With the exception of *JT65 nnnn JT9*, they affect only the graphical
displays — they have no effect on the decoding process.

image::images/wide-graph-controls.png[align="center",alt="Wide Graph Controls"]

- *Bins/Pixel* controls the displayed frequency resolution.  Set this
value to 1 for the highest possible resolution, or to higher numbers
to compress the spectral display. Normal operation with a convenient
window size works well at 2 to 8 bins per pixel.

- *JT65 nnnn JT9* sets the dividing point for wide-band decoding of
JT65 and JT9 signals in *JT9+JT65* mode.  The decoder looks for JT65
signals below the specified frequency and JT9 signals above it.

- *Start nnn Hz* sets the low-frequency starting point of the
waterfall frequency scale.

- *N Avg* is the number of successive FFTs to be averaged before
updating the spectral display.  Values around 5 are suitable for
normal JT9 and JT65 operation.  Adjust *N Avg* to make the waterfall
move faster or slower, as desired.

- *Zero* and *Gain* control the scaling and reference level for
waterfall colors.  Values around 0 for both parameters are usually
about right, depending on the input signal level and your own
preferences.

- A dropdown list below the *Palette* label lets you select from a
wide range of waterfall color palettes.  

- Click *Adjust* to activate a window that allows you to create a
user-defined palette.

- Check *Flatten* if you want _WSJT-X_ to compensate for a sloping or
uneven response across the received passband.

- Select *Current* or *Cumulative* for the spectrum displayed in the
bottom one-third of the Wide Graph window.  *Current* is the average
spectrum over the most recent *N Avg* FFT calculations.  *Cumulative*
is the average spectrum since the start of the present UTC minute.
