wsjtx/source/faq.adoc, before:

// Status=review

[qanda]
WSJT-X v1.3 seems to run properly in receive mode, with signals appearing on the waterfall, but *Decode* starts later than expected and nothing is decoded.::

Some earlier soundcard drivers fail to work properly at 48 kHz sample
rate, the default in WSJT-X r3590 and above.  You can force _WSJT-X_
to sample at 12000 Hz by inserting two lines at the end of file
+wsjtx.ini+.  Use Windows Notepad to open +wsjtx.ini+, in your
_WSJT-X_ installation directory.  Then copy-and-paste the following
two lines into the file, save the file, and restart _WSJT-X_.

 [Tune]
 Audio\DisableInputResampling=true

The *Flatten* feature causes my displayed spectrum to curve steeply upward near its edges, before falling where the radio's IF filter cuts off.::

_WSJT-X_ does not expect a steep filter edge within the displayed
passband, except perhaps a low-frequency cutoff below 200 Hz.  Use a
wider IF filter or reduce the displayed passband by decreasing
*Bins/Pixel*, increasing *Start*, and/or reducing the width of the
*Wide Graph*.  You might also need to re-center the filter's passband,
if such control is available.

When I set *Polling interval* to a nonzero value, _WSJT-X_ sometimes terminates abnormally.::

A few radios do not interact properly with the +hamlib+ calls used in
_WSJT-X_.  We are working to resolve these issues.  In the meantime,
you can run with *Polling interval* = 0, or control your radio through
_DX Labs Commander_ or _Ham Radio Deluxe_.

How should I configure _WSJT-X_ to run multiple instances?.::

Each instance should be in its own folder if you wish to keep the ALL.TXT, *.log,
and *.adi files properly sorted.

If "Allow multiple instances" was *not* checked when _WSJT-X_ was last exited, the next program startup (in Windows only) will attempt to kill any running instances of the decoder back end, jt9.exe, before starting a new one.

Commit message:

Minor edits of FAQ #4.  (Thanks Chase for supplying this one!)
1. It had mixed CRLF (DOS-style) and LF-only (unix style) line endings.
2. For correct formatting, the Answer to a Question apparently needs to
be a single paragraph.



git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc@3699 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

wsjtx/source/faq.adoc, after:

// Status=review

[qanda]
WSJT-X v1.3 seems to run properly in receive mode, with signals appearing on the waterfall, but *Decode* starts later than expected and nothing is decoded.::

Some earlier soundcard drivers fail to work properly at 48 kHz sample
rate, the default in WSJT-X r3590 and above.  You can force _WSJT-X_
to sample at 12000 Hz by inserting two lines at the end of file
+wsjtx.ini+.  Use Windows Notepad to open +wsjtx.ini+, in your
_WSJT-X_ installation directory.  Then copy-and-paste the following
two lines into the file, save the file, and restart _WSJT-X_.

 [Tune]
 Audio\DisableInputResampling=true

The *Flatten* feature causes my displayed spectrum to curve steeply upward near its edges, before falling where the radio's IF filter cuts off.::

_WSJT-X_ does not expect a steep filter edge within the displayed
passband, except perhaps a low-frequency cutoff below 200 Hz.  Use a
wider IF filter or reduce the displayed passband by decreasing
*Bins/Pixel*, increasing *Start*, and/or reducing the width of the
*Wide Graph*.  You might also need to re-center the filter's passband,
if such control is available.

When I set *Polling interval* to a nonzero value, _WSJT-X_ sometimes terminates abnormally.::

A few radios do not interact properly with the +hamlib+ calls used in
_WSJT-X_.  We are working to resolve these issues.  In the meantime,
you can run with *Polling interval* = 0, or control your radio through
_DX Labs Commander_ or _Ham Radio Deluxe_.

How should I configure _WSJT-X_ to run multiple instances?.::

Each instance must be executed from its own directory.  Be sure to 
check *Advanced | Allow multiple instances* on the *Setup* menu
for each one; then exit and restart the program.  This step needs to be
done just once.
