wsjtx/source/transceiver-setup.adoc, before:

// Status=review
.Receiver Noise Level

- Click the *Monitor* button to return to normal receive operation.  The 
button should be highlighted in [green]*GREEN*.

- Be sure your transceiver is set to *USB* (or *USB Data*) mode.

- Use the receiver gain controls and/or system mixer controls to set
the background noise level (scale at lower left of main window) to
around 30 dB when no signals are present.  If necessary you can also
use the slider next to the scale, but note that the overall dynamic
range will be best with this slider not too far from its mid-point.

.Bandwidth and Frequency Setting

- If your transceiver offers more than one bandwidth setting in USB
mode, choose the widest one possible, up to about 5 kHz.  This choice
has the desirable effect of allowing the *Wide Graph* to display the
JT65 and JT9 sub-bands simultaneously on most HF bands.  For more
details see the <<TUTORIAL,Tutorial>> section.

- If you have only a standard SSB filter you won’t be able to display
more than about 2.7 kHz bandwidth.  Depending on the dial frequency
setting, you can still have the full sub-band for one mode (JT65 or
JT9) and part of the sub-band for the other mode available on screen.
Some experimentation may be necessary.

- Of course, you might prefer to concentrate on one mode at a time,
setting your dial frequency to (say) 14.076 for JT65 and 14.078 for
JT9.  Present conventions have the nominal JT9 dial frequency 2 kHz
higher than the JT65 dial frequency.  A checkbox labeled *+2 kHz*,
just below the *Band* selector, makes the appropriate frequency
settings easy.

.Transmitter Audio Level

* Click the *Tune* button on the main screen to switch the
radio into transmit mode and generate a steady audio tone. 

* Listen to the generated audio tone using your radio’s *Monitor*
facility. The transmitted tone should be perfectly smooth, with no
clicks or glitches.

* Open the computer’s audio mixer controls for output (``Playback'')
devices and adjust the volume slider downward from its maximum until
the RF output from your transmitter falls by around ten percent.  This
will be a good level for audio drive.

* Alternatively, you can make the Tx audio level adjustment using the
digital slider labeled *Pwr* at the right edge of the main window.

* Toggle the *Tune* button once more to stop your test transmission.

Commit message:

Add images for WSPR docs. Rename some wsjtx files. More wsjtx doc edits. Add update[1,2].bat files.
git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc@4222 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

wsjtx/source/transceiver-setup.adoc, after:

// Status=review
.Receiver Noise Level

- Click the *Monitor* button to return to normal receive operation
(button highlighted in [green]*GREEN*).

- Be sure your transceiver is set to *USB* (or *USB Data*) mode.

- Use the receiver gain controls and/or system mixer controls to set
the background noise level (scale at lower left of main window) to
around 30 dB when no signals are present.  If necessary you can also
use the slider next to the scale, but note that the overall dynamic
range will be best with this slider not too far from its mid-point.

.Bandwidth and Frequency Setting

- If your transceiver offers more than one bandwidth setting in USB
mode, choose the widest one possible, up to about 5 kHz.  This choice
has the desirable effect of allowing the *Wide Graph* to display the
JT65 and JT9 sub-bands simultaneously on most HF bands.  Further 
details are provided in the <<TUTORIAL,Tutorial>> section.

- If you have only a standard SSB filter you won’t be able to display
more than about 2.7 kHz bandwidth.  Depending on the exact dial
frequency setting, you can display the full sub-band typically used
for one mode (JT65 or JT9) and part of the sub-band for the other
mode.

- Of course, you might prefer to concentrate on one mode at a time,
setting your dial frequency to (say) 14.076 for JT65 or 14.078 for
JT9.  Present conventions have the nominal JT9 dial frequency 2 kHz
higher than the JT65 dial frequency.  A checkbox labeled *+2 kHz*,
just below the *Band* selector, makes the appropriate frequency
settings easy.

.Transmitter Audio Level

* Click the *Tune* button on the main screen to switch the
radio into transmit mode and generate a steady audio tone. 

* Listen to the generated audio tone using your radio’s *Monitor*
facility. The transmitted tone should be perfectly smooth, with no
clicks or glitches.

* Open the computer’s audio mixer controls for output (``Playback'')
devices and adjust the volume slider downward from its maximum until
the RF output from your transmitter falls by around ten percent.  This
will be a good level for audio drive.

* Alternatively, you can make the Tx audio level adjustment using the
digital slider labeled *Pwr* at the right edge of the main window.

* Toggle the *Tune* button once more to stop your test transmission.
