wsjtx/source/wsjtx-main.adoc, before:

// Status=review
// This is a comment line, anything with // is ignored at process time.
= WSJT-X User Guide
//:Author: Joe Taylor, K1JT
//:Date: January 30, 2014
//:Revision: 1.3
:badges:
:icons:
:numbered:
:keywords: amateur radio weak signal communication K1JT WSJT FSK441 JT65 JT6M
:description: Software for Amateur Radio Weak-Signal Communication
:prog: WSJT-X

// use global link file
include::../../global/links.adoc[]

// These [[xxxx]] labels are HTML anchors, and can be used to
// navigate though the document easily: <<[INTRO],See Introduction]>> will
// place a hyper-link in your text to take you too the anchored section.
// All major sections or points of interest should have one.

// == is level (2), section 1.0, === would mean section 1.1, === would
// be section 1.1.1. This method is used throughout the document.

[[INTRO]]
== Introduction
include::introduction.adoc[]

[[SYSREQ]]
== System Requirements
include::system-requirements.adoc[]

[[INSTALL]]
== Installation

- Download _WSJT-X_ from the {homepage}. Click on _WSJT-X_ at the left
margin and then on the desired download link.

[[INSTALL_WIN]]
=== Windows
include::install-windows.adoc[]

[[INSTALL_UBU]]
=== Linux
include::install-ubuntu.adoc[]

[[INSTALL_OSX]]
=== OS X
include::install-mac.adoc[]

// Note to developers. The URL http://developer.berlios.de/projects/wsjt/. is
// to a very old src version of WSJT 5.7 or so. WSJTX is not listed at all.
// Also, all the Qt4 stuff is now obsolete, and needs to be updated.
// Instructions for source builds Win, +++*Nix+++ {amp} Mac all need to be written  
// and Reviewed.

[[SRC_CODE]]
=== Source Code
include::install-from-source.adoc[]

[[CONFIG]]
== Setup and Configuration

[[STATION]]
=== Station Tab
include::configuration-station.adoc[]

[[TXMACROS]]
=== Tx Macros Tab
include::configuration-txmacros.adoc[]

[[BAND_SETTINGS]]
=== Band Settings Tab
include::configuration-band-settings.adoc[]

[[FONTS]]
=== Font Sizes
include::font-sizes.adoc[]

[[TUTORIAL]]
== Basic Operating Tutorial

[[TUT_MAIN]]
=== Main Window Settings
include::tutorial-main-window.adoc[]

[[TUT_WIDE_GRAPH]]
=== Wide Graph Settings
include::tutorial-wide-graph-settings.adoc[]

[[TUT_EX1]]
=== Sample File 1
include::tutorial-example1.adoc[]

[[TUT_EX2]]
=== Sample File 2
include::tutorial-example2.adoc[]

[[TRANSCEIVER]]
== Transceiver Setup
include::transceiver-setup.adoc[]

[[MAKE_QSOS]]
== Making QSOs
include::make-qso.adoc[]

[[CONTROLS]]
== Controls & Functions

[[CONTROLS_WIDE]]
=== Wide Graph
include::controls-functions-wide-graph.adoc[]

[[CONTROLS_MAIN]]
=== Main Window
include::controls-functions-main-window.adoc[]

[[CONTROLS_LEFT]]
=== Misc Controls Left
include::controls-functions-left.adoc[]

[[CONTROLS_CENTER]]
=== Misc Controls Center
include::controls-functions-center.adoc[]

[[CONTROLS_MSGS]]
=== Tx Messages
include::controls-functions-messages.adoc[]

[[STATUS_BAR]]
=== Status Bar
include::controls-functions-status-bar.adoc[]

[[MENUS]]
=== Menus
include::controls-functions-menus.adoc[]

[[SHORTCUTS]]
=== Keyboard Shortcuts
include::controls-functions-kb-shortcuts.adoc[]

[[MOUSE_COMMANDS]]
=== Mouse Commands
include::controls-functions-special-mouse-cmds.adoc[]

[[COOP_PGMS]]
== Cooperating Programs
To be added: brief descriptions of JTAlert and PSK Reporter and how
to use them with _WSJT-X_.

[[PROTOCOLS]]
== Protocol Specifications

[[JT65PRO]]
=== JT65
include::jt65-protocol.adoc[]

[[JT9PRO]]
=== JT9
include::jt9-protocol.adoc[]

[[JT65_JT9]]
=== JT65 & JT9 Differences
include::jt65-jt9-differences.adoc[]

[[TXRX]]
== Implementation Details
include::tx-rx.adoc[]

//////////////////
[[TROUBLE_SHOOTING]]
== Troubleshooting
To be added ...
/////////////////

[[FAQ]]
== Frequently Asked Questions
include::faq.adoc[]

[[FILES]]
== Directory Contents

// Note to Dev-Team, this list of files needs to be updated.
[[FILES1]]
=== Installed Files
include::installed-files.adoc[]

[[FILES2]]
=== Runtime Files
include::runtime-files.adoc[]

[[UTIL]]
== Utility Programs
include::utilities.adoc[]

[[COMPILING]]
== Compiling WSJT-X
include::compiling.adoc[]

[[ACK]]
== Acknowledgements
include::acknowledgements.adoc[]

[appendix]
License
-------
include::../../global/license.adoc[]

Commit message:

Worked through chapters 1-4, linked to communication.adoc in global, moved photo to top of chapt. 5
git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc@4175 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

wsjtx/source/wsjtx-main.adoc, after:

// Status=review
// This is a comment line, anything with // is ignored at process time.
= WSJT-X User Guide
//:Author: Joe Taylor, K1JT
//:Date: January 30, 2014
//:Revision: 1.3
:badges:
:icons:
:numbered:
:keywords: amateur radio weak signal communication K1JT WSJT FSK441 JT65 JT6M
:description: Software for Amateur Radio Weak-Signal Communication
:prog: WSJT-X

// use global link file
include::../../global/links.adoc[]

// These [[xxxx]] labels are HTML anchors, and can be used to
// navigate though the document easily: <<[INTRO],See Introduction]>> will
// place a hyper-link in your text to take you too the anchored section.
// All major sections or points of interest should have one.

// == is level (2), section 1.0, === would mean section 1.1, === would
// be section 1.1.1. This method is used throughout the document.

[[INTRO]]
== Introduction
include::introduction.adoc[]

[[CONTACT]]
== Contact Us
include::../../global/communication.adoc[]

[[SYSREQ]]
== System Requirements
include::system-requirements.adoc[]

[[INSTALL]]
== Installation

- Download _WSJT-X_ from the {homepage}. Click on the _WSJT-X_ link located on the left
margin and then on the desired download link.

[[INSTALL_WIN]]
=== Windows
include::install-windows.adoc[]

[[INSTALL_UBU]]
=== Linux
include::install-ubuntu.adoc[]

[[INSTALL_OSX]]
=== OS X
include::install-mac.adoc[]

// Note to developers. The URL http://developer.berlios.de/projects/wsjt/. is
// to a very old src version of WSJT 5.7 or so. WSJTX is not listed at all.
// Also, all the Qt4 stuff is now obsolete, and needs to be updated.
// Instructions for source builds Win, +++*Nix+++ {amp} Mac all need to be written  
// and Reviewed.

[[SRC_CODE]]
=== Source Code
include::install-from-source.adoc[]

[[CONFIG]]
== Setup and Configuration

[[STATION]]
=== Station Tab
include::configuration-station.adoc[]

[[TXMACROS]]
=== Tx Macros Tab
include::configuration-txmacros.adoc[]

[[BAND_SETTINGS]]
=== Band Settings Tab
include::configuration-band-settings.adoc[]

[[FONTS]]
=== Font Sizes
include::font-sizes.adoc[]

[[TUTORIAL]]
== Basic Operating Tutorial

[[TUT_MAIN]]
=== Main Window Settings
include::tutorial-main-window.adoc[]

[[TUT_WIDE_GRAPH]]
=== Wide Graph Settings
include::tutorial-wide-graph-settings.adoc[]

[[TUT_EX1]]
=== Sample File 1
include::tutorial-example1.adoc[]

[[TUT_EX2]]
=== Sample File 2
include::tutorial-example2.adoc[]

[[TRANSCEIVER]]
== Transceiver Setup
include::transceiver-setup.adoc[]

[[MAKE_QSOS]]
== Making QSOs
include::make-qso.adoc[]

[[CONTROLS]]
== Controls & Functions

[[CONTROLS_WIDE]]
=== Wide Graph
include::controls-functions-wide-graph.adoc[]

[[CONTROLS_MAIN]]
=== Main Window
include::controls-functions-main-window.adoc[]

[[CONTROLS_LEFT]]
=== Misc Controls Left
include::controls-functions-left.adoc[]

[[CONTROLS_CENTER]]
=== Misc Controls Center
include::controls-functions-center.adoc[]

[[CONTROLS_MSGS]]
=== Tx Messages
include::controls-functions-messages.adoc[]

[[STATUS_BAR]]
=== Status Bar
include::controls-functions-status-bar.adoc[]

[[MENUS]]
=== Menus
include::controls-functions-menus.adoc[]

[[SHORTCUTS]]
=== Keyboard Shortcuts
include::controls-functions-kb-shortcuts.adoc[]

[[MOUSE_COMMANDS]]
=== Mouse Commands
include::controls-functions-special-mouse-cmds.adoc[]

[[COOP_PGMS]]
== Cooperating Programs
To be added: brief descriptions of JTAlert and PSK Reporter and how
to use them with _WSJT-X_.

[[PROTOCOLS]]
== Protocol Specifications

[[JT65PRO]]
=== JT65
include::jt65-protocol.adoc[]

[[JT9PRO]]
=== JT9
include::jt9-protocol.adoc[]

[[JT65_JT9]]
=== JT65 & JT9 Differences
include::jt65-jt9-differences.adoc[]

[[TXRX]]
== Implementation Details
include::tx-rx.adoc[]

//////////////////
[[TROUBLE_SHOOTING]]
== Troubleshooting
To be added ...
/////////////////

[[FAQ]]
== Frequently Asked Questions
include::faq.adoc[]

[[FILES]]
== Directory Contents

// Note to Dev-Team, this list of files needs to be updated.
[[FILES1]]
=== Installed Files
include::installed-files.adoc[]

[[FILES2]]
=== Runtime Files
include::runtime-files.adoc[]

[[UTIL]]
== Utility Programs
include::utilities.adoc[]

[[COMPILING]]
== Compiling WSJT-X
include::compiling.adoc[]

[[ACK]]
== Acknowledgements
include::acknowledgements.adoc[]

[appendix]
License
-------
include::../../global/license.adoc[]
