dev-guide/source/dev-guide-main.adoc, before:

// Status=review
= WSJT Developer's Guide
:badges:
:icons:
:numbered:
:keywords: amateur radio weak signal communication K1JT WSJT FSK441 JT65 JT6M JT9 WSJTX
:description: Software for Amateur Radio Weak-Signal Communication

// use global link file
include::../../global/links.adoc[]

== Overview

The WSJT family of programs for weak-signal amateur radio
communication includes _WSJT_, _WSPR_, _MAP65_, _WSJT-X_, and
_WSPR-X_.  User interfaces for _WSJT_ and _WSPR_ are written in
Python, and build procedures for these two programs are similar.  User
interfaces for _MAP65_, _WSJT-X_, and _WSPR-X_ are written in C++ and
use the Qt framework, and they share most build procedures.  Most
number-crunching in all of the WSJT programs is done in Fortran.

This _Developer's Guide_ is a work in progress.  Instructions for the
Python-based programs are still to come, but we do currently provide
instructions for compiling _WSJT-X_ in Linux and we outline the
prerequisites for compiling it in Windows.  Similar procedures to these
can be used for building _MAP65_ and _WSPR-X_.

Please send feedback on this _Guide_ to {greg_beam}.

////
[[BASEENV]]
== Base Environment
include::wsjt-dev-env.adoc[]
Under Construction
////

== Source Code
include::sourcecode-dev.adoc[]

== Package Matrix
include::pkgmatrix-dev.adoc[]

////
[[DOCSETUP]]
== Documentation
include::doc-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction

[[MAP65]]
== MAP-65
include::map65-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction

[[SIMJT]]
== SIJT
include::simjt-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction

[[WSJT]]
== WSJT
include::wsjt-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction
////

[[WSJTX]]
== WSJT-X
include::wsjtx-dev.adoc[]

////
[[WSPR]]
== WSPR
include::wspr-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction

[[WSPRX]]
== WSPR-X
include::wsprx-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction
////

:numbered!:
License
-------
include::../../global/license.adoc[]

Commit message:

Interim Commit
git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc@3797 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

dev-guide/source/dev-guide-main.adoc, after:

// Status=review
= WSJT Developers Guide
:badges:
:icons:
:numbered:
:keywords: amateur radio weak signal communication K1JT WSJT FSK441 JT65 JT6M JT9 WSJTX
:description: Software for Amateur Radio Weak-Signal Communication
:page: WSJT Developers Guide

// use global link file
include::../../global/links.adoc[]

== Overview

The WSJT family of programs for weak-signal amateur radio
communication includes _WSJT_, _WSPR_, _MAP65_, _WSJT-X_, and
_WSPR-X_.  User interfaces for _WSJT_ and _WSPR_ are written in
Python, and build procedures for these two programs are similar.  User
interfaces for _MAP65_, _WSJT-X_, and _WSPR-X_ are written in C++ and
use the Qt framework, and they share most build procedures.  Most
number-crunching in all of the _WSJT_ programs is done in Fortran.

The {page} is a work in progress.  Instructions for the Python-based programs
are still to come, but we do currently provide instructions for compiling
_WSJT-X_ in Linux and we outline the prerequisites for compiling it in Windows.
Similar procedures to these can be used for building _MAP65_ and _WSPR-X_.

////
Communications should be moved to a gloabl file to prevent rework / repeat in the
various guides.
include::../global/comminication.adoc
////

== Communication

The following are established communication channels with the WSJT group.

.General Information
* Main Site: {homepage}
* Development Site: http://developer.berlios.de/projects/wsjt/[Project Summary]

.Development Related
[horizontal]
* Contact Project Manager, email: {joe_taylor}
* Development Activity, Join: {dev_mail_list}
* Repository Updates, Join: {dev_mail_svn}
* Development Guide Feedback, email {greg_beam}

.Community Related
* Discussion Board: {wsjt_yahoo_group}

[[BASEENV]]
== Base Environment
include::wsjt-dev-env.adoc[]

== Source Code
include::sourcecode-dev.adoc[]

== Package Matrix
include::pkgmatrix-dev.adoc[]

////
[[DOCSETUP]]
== Documentation
include::doc-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction

[[MAP65]]
== MAP-65
include::map65-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction

[[SIMJT]]
== SIJT
include::simjt-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction

[[WSJT]]
== WSJT
include::wsjt-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction
////

[[WSJTX]]
== WSJT-X
include::wsjtx-dev.adoc[]

////
[[WSPR]]
== WSPR
include::wspr-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction

[[WSPRX]]
== WSPR-X
include::wsprx-dev.adoc[]
Under Construction
////

:numbered!:
License
-------
include::../../global/license.adoc[]
