dev-guide/source/environment.adoc, before:

:page: The WSJT Developers Guide

[[BASE_ENV]]
Before you can start developing _WSJT_ applications, you must first 
set up your environment. _{page}_ will use the respective *JTSDK*
for both Windows and Linux as the containment area.

.The containment provides:
* A fixed structure to work from
* Provide system independent build tools
* Produce repeatable results
* Create an experimental area to test builds
* Allow full testing without system installation
* Provide build methods for non-developer testing

Software development kits are provided for Windows and Linux. Each kit
provides the environment described above. Details of each kit can be found
at the end of the dev-guide.

.JTSDK Notes
* Each kit is self contained, you should not have to install any system
level software.
* All 5 main stream applications +*( WSJT, WSJT-X, WSPR, WSPR-X and MAP65 )+*
can be built using the appropriate SDK.
* If you have one or more required packages already installed on the
host system, the SDK will not interfere with your System Paths or use
System Application to perform builds.

.JTSDK-DOC
* +*JTSDK-DOC*+ contains: Subversion, GNU Tools and scripts to build
all +*WSJT Documentation*+.
* For details, see <<JTSDKDOC,JTSDK-DOC>>.

[[DOCMENU]]
.JTSDK-DOC Main Menu
image::images/jtsdk-doc-main.png[]

[[PYMENU]]
.JTSDK-PY
* +*JTSDK-PY*+ contains Python3 ({plus} modules}, Subversion, Mingw32, GNU Tools
and scripts required to build +*WSJT*+ and +*WSPR*+.
* For details, see <<JTSDKDOC,JTSDK-PY>>.

.JTSDK-PY Main Menu
image::images/jtsdk-py-main.png[]

.JTSDK-QT
* +*JTSDK-QT*+ contains QT5, CMake, Subversion, FFTW3, Mingw48_32, GNU Tools, 
hamlib-1.2, Hamlib-3 and scripts to build +*WSJT-X*+, +*WSPR-X*+ and
+*MAP65*+.
* For details, see <<JTSDKDOC,JTSDK-QT>>.

[[QTMENU]]
.JTSDK-QT Main Menu
image::images/jtsdk-qt-main.png[]

.JTSDK-NIX
* Provides QT5, Python3 ({plus} modules), libraries and dependencies.
* For details, see <<JTSDKNIX,JTSDK-NIX>>.

[[PATHCFG]]
=== Path Configuration 

{page} will use the respective SDK for all build activity, and
thus the following paths throughout:

.WINDOWS
* Scripts and final builds will under:
** C:\JTSDK-DOC
** C:\JTSDK-PY
** C:\JTSDK-QT

.LINUX
* JTSDK-NIX
** /opt/jtsdk-nix
//
* Scripts and final builds will be under:
** /home/$USER/wsjt-env

[[WININSTALL]]
== Windows SDK

Setup and installation is straight forward. Each SDK is a self
extracting 7z compressed file.

WARNING: For Windows, the current update method for +*SDKs*+ is
through +*JTSDK-DOC*+, as such, is a mandatory install.

=== Download

[horizontal]
+*JTSDK-DOC*+:: {jtsdk_doc}
+*JTSDK-PY*+:: {jtsdk_py}
+*JTSDK-QT*+:: {jtsdk_qt}

=== Install

WARNING: If you choose to install an SDK in a different location
from the recommendation, you will need to reconfigure it, basically,
rebuild the SDK from scratch.

* Double Click or Right Click and Open the download
* Change path to: C:\
* Click the Extract Button

.Self Extracting 7z File
image::images/7z-extract.png[]

* Open a Windows CMD Terminal, then type,:
* You can also browse to the env file, and double click
----

*For JTSDK-DOC*
C:\JTSDK-DOC\jtsdk-docenv.bat

*For JTSDK-PY*
C:\JTSDK-PY\jtsdk-pyenv.bat

*For JTSDK-QT*
C:\JTSDK\jtsdk-qtenv.bat

----

[[WINUPDATE]]
=== Update

To update +*JTSDK-PY or JTSDK-QT*+, you must install +*JTSDK-DOC*+ and
perform a check-out. Developer check-out is *not* required, however, if
you intend to work on Documentation, use your Developer account v.s. Anonymous.

.Update or Check-out then Update
* Open Windows CMD Terminal, and Type:
-----
C:\JTSDK-DOC\jtsdk-docenv.bat
-----
* If you need to check-out first:
-----
svn co svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc

then type,:

update
-----
* To Update, just type:
-----
svn update

then type,:

update
-----
* You can also browse too, and run +*install-scripts.bat*+ manually
once you have performed an initial check-out.
* To ensure you always have the latest scripts, always perform an 
svn update  first;
-----
cd C:\JTSDK-DOC\doc

then type,:

svn update
-----
* At this point, all three JTSDKs should be up to date, if installed.
* A successful update should look similar to:

.Master Script Update
image::images/jtsdk-update.png[]

=== Uninstall
* Delete (C:\JTSDK-DOC) , (C:\JTSDK-PY) or (C:\JTSDK-QT)
* Nothing is installed to the system or registry

[[NIXINSTALL]]
== Linux SDK

Under Construction

=== Download

Under Construction

=== Install

Under Construction

=== Uninstall

Under Construction

Commit message:

dev-guide updates, general edits
git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc@4008 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

dev-guide/source/environment.adoc, after:

:page: The WSJT Developers Guide

[[BASE_ENV]]
Before you can start developing _WSJT_ applications, you must first 
set up your environment. _{page}_ will use the respective *JTSDK*
for both Windows and Linux as the containment area.

.The containment provides:
* A fixed structure to work from
* Provide system independent build tools
* Produce repeatable results
* Create an experimental area to test builds
* Allow full testing without system installation
* Provide build methods for non-developer testing

Software development kits are provided for Windows and Linux. Each kit
provides the environment described above. Details of each kit can be found
at the end of the dev-guide.

.JTSDK Notes
* Each kit is self contained, you should not have to install any system
level software.
* All 5 main stream applications +*( WSJT, WSJT-X, WSPR, WSPR-X and MAP65 )+*
can be built using the appropriate SDK.
* If you have one or more required packages already installed on the
host system, the SDK will not interfere with your System Paths or use
System Application to perform builds.

.JTSDK-DOC
* +*JTSDK-DOC*+ contains: Subversion, GNU Tools and scripts to build
all +*WSJT Documentation*+.
* For details, see <<JTSDKDOC,JTSDK-DOC>>.

[[DOCMENU]]
.JTSDK-DOC Main Menu
image::images/jtsdk-doc-main.png[]

[[PYMENU]]
.JTSDK-PY
* +*JTSDK-PY*+ contains Python3 ({plus} modules}, Subversion, Mingw32, GNU Tools
and scripts required to build +*WSJT*+ and +*WSPR*+.
* For details, see <<JTSDKDOC,JTSDK-PY>>.

.JTSDK-PY Main Menu
image::images/jtsdk-py-main.png[]

.JTSDK-QT
* +*JTSDK-QT*+ contains QT5, CMake, Subversion, FFTW3, Mingw48_32, GNU Tools, 
hamlib-1.2, Hamlib-3 and scripts to build +*WSJT-X*+, +*WSPR-X*+ and
+*MAP65*+.
* For details, see <<JTSDKDOC,JTSDK-QT>>.

[[QTMENU]]
.JTSDK-QT Main Menu
image::images/jtsdk-qt-main.png[]

.JTSDK-NIX
* Provides QT5, Python3 ({plus} modules), libraries and dependencies.
* For details, see <<JTSDKNIX,JTSDK-NIX>>.

[[PATHCFG]]
=== Path Configuration 

{page} will use the respective SDK for all build activity, and
thus the following paths throughout:

.WINDOWS
* Scripts and final builds will under:
** C:\JTSDK-DOC
** C:\JTSDK-PY
** C:\JTSDK-QT

.LINUX
* JTSDK-NIX
** /opt/jtsdk-nix
//
* Scripts and final builds will be under:
** /home/$USER/wsjt-env

[[WININSTALL]]
== Windows SDK

Setup and installation is straight forward. Each SDK is a self
extracting 7z compressed file.

WARNING: For Windows, the current update method for +*SDKs*+ is
through +*JTSDK-DOC*+, as such, is a mandatory install.

=== Download

[horizontal]
+*JTSDK-DOC*+:: {jtsdk_doc}
+*JTSDK-PY*+:: {jtsdk_py}
+*JTSDK-QT*+:: {jtsdk_qt}

=== Install

WARNING: If you choose to install an SDK in a different location
from the recommendation, you will need to reconfigure it, basically,
rebuild the SDK from scratch.

* Double Click or Right Click and Open the download
* Change path to: C:\
* Click the Extract Button

.Self Extracting 7z File
image::images/7z-extract.png[]

* Open a Windows CMD Terminal, then type,:
* You can also browse to the env file, and double click
----

*For JTSDK-DOC*
C:\JTSDK-DOC\jtsdk-docenv.bat

*For JTSDK-PY*
C:\JTSDK-PY\jtsdk-pyenv.bat

*For JTSDK-QT*
C:\JTSDK\jtsdk-qtenv.bat

----

[[WINUPDATE]]
=== Update

To update +*JTSDK-PY, JTSDK-QT*+, or +*JTSDK-DOC*+ you must install
+*JTSDK-DOC*+ and perform a check-out. Developer check-out is *not*
required, however, if you intend to work on Documentation, use your
Developer account v.s. Anonymous so you can *( check-in )* any edits
you have made.

.Update or Check-out then Update
* Open Windows CMD Terminal, and Type:
-----
C:\JTSDK-DOC\jtsdk-docenv.bat
-----
* If you need to check-out first:
-----
svn co svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc

then type,:

update
-----
* To Update, just type:
-----
svn update

then type,:

update
-----
* You can also browse too, and run +*install-scripts.bat*+ manually
once you have performed an initial check-out.
* To ensure you always have the latest scripts, always perform an 
svn update  first;
-----
C:\JTSDK-DOC\jtsdk-doc-env.bat

at the prompt type,:

svn update

then type,:

update
-----
* At this point, all three JTSDKs should be up to date, if installed.
* A successful update should look similar to:

.Master Script Update
image::images/jtsdk-update.png[]

=== Uninstall
* Delete (C:\JTSDK-DOC) , (C:\JTSDK-PY) or (C:\JTSDK-QT)
* Nothing is installed to the system or registry

**********************************************************************
OmniRig Uninstall

Due to recent changes in build requirements for _WSJT-X_, OmniRig
must be installed to build Debug or Release version for _WSJT-X_. OmniRig
comes with an "Uninstall Omni-Rig" program under Start >> Programs >>
OmniRig.

**********************************************************************


[[NIXINSTALL]]
== Linux SDK

Under Construction

=== Download

Under Construction

=== Install

Under Construction

=== Uninstall

Under Construction
