dev-guide/source/wsjtx-dev.adoc, before:

=== Linux Makefile Example

In order to build _WSJT-X_ form source, install the following packages:

[source,shell]
----------
sudo apt-get install gcc g++ gfortran make libfftw3-dev \
libpulse-dev libhamlib-dev qtbase5-dev  pulseaudio subversion \
libgfortran3:i386 libc6-i386 libqt5multimedia5-plugins \
qtmultimedia5-dev
----------

adjust install method to you distribution package manager.

==== WSJT-X Build and Run Dependencies
[horizontal]
+*gcc*+:: GNU C Compiler
+*g{plus}{plus}*+:: GNU C{plus}{plus} Compiler
+*gfortran*+:: GNU Fortran or F90
+*make*+:: GNU Make
+*libqt5multimedia5-plugins*+:: QT5 Media Plugins
+*libfftw3-dev*+:: Fast Fourier Transforms
+*libpulse-dev*+:: Headers and Files for Pulse AUdio
+*libhamlib-dev*+:: Headers and Files for Hamlib
+*qtbase5-dev*+:: QT5 Base Dev Files
+*qtmultimedia5-dev*+:: Qt5 Multimedsia Dev Files
+*pulseaudio*+:: Pulse Audio Sound Driver
+*subversion*+:: Version Control Software
+*libgfortran.so.3*+:: Fortran Library
+*libc.so.6*+:: GCC C Library
+*libm.so.6*+:: GCC C Library
+*libgcc_s.so.1libm.so.6*+:: GCC C Library 
+*libquadmath.so.0*+:: Quad-Precision Math Library

==== Build Methods

IMPORTANT: You can perform the steps manually if desired. Using the script
automates the steps.

* Open a terminal session, +*Ctrl{plus}Alt{plus}T*+
* +*Copy {amp} Paste*+ the following block, then +*Enter*+ to save.

[caption="Create Script: "]
.wsjtx-compile.sh
[source,bash]
----------
include::wsjtx-compile.txt[]
----------

==== For Script Method, Change Permissions and Run
[source,bash]
----------
# CHANGE PERMISSION
chmod +x ./wsjtx-compile.sh

# RUN SCRIPT
./wsjtx-compile.sh
----------

==== Test KVASD

Before you launch _WSJT-X_, ensure _KVASD_ can run.

[source,bash]
----------
# cd to the newly created wsjtx-rxxxx directory then: ./kvasd -v
cd wsjtx-$rev_num
./kvasd -v

# If successful, you should see the version number
KVASD version 1.11

# To see the copyright information
./kvasd

----------

==== Run The New WSJT-X Binary

[source,bash]
----------
# When running from a terminal [ ./wsjtx ], the xterm remains open.
# This is good for testing and chasing errors. Run WSJT-X with:

./wsjtx

# You can also use a file manager. Browse to WSJT-X dir, and open
# as you would any other program. Using this method to launch, you
# should not see the terminal window.

----------

=== Windows CMake Example

The critical portion of building _WSJT-X_ on Windows is setting up the
environment and defining paths. Once complete, subsequent builds will be a two
step build process; Open the wsjt-env terminal and run the build batch file.

IMPORTANT: If you have one or more of the following packages installed, you will
need to make adjustments +*wsjtx-env.bat*+. This guide assumes +*none*+ of the
development dependencies have been installed.

==== Directory Setup
* Open Windows CMD Terminal
* Use the following commands to create the required folder structure

[caption="Create Directory Structure:"]
.C:\wsjt-env\.. .. ..
----------
REM -- One command per line, Copy and Paste

c:
mkdir wsjt-env\src wsjt-env\downloads wsjt-env\fftw3
mkdir wsjt-env\wsjtx-build\Debug wsjt-env\wsjtx-build\Release
mkdir wsjt-env\wsjtx-install\Debug wsjt-env\wsjtx-install\Release

REM -- Close the CMD window
----------

==== Download Development Packages

* Save the following packages to +*C:\wsjt-env\downloads*+

[horizontal]
+*Qt5 SDK*+:: {qt5_framework} - Qt 5.2.1 Windows-32, (MinGW 4.8, OpenGL)
+*CMake*+:: {cmake} - Win32 Installer
+*Hamlib*+:: {hamlib} - Hamlib 1.2.15.3.zip
+*FFTW3*+:: {fftw3} - 32-bit version: fftw-3.3.3-dll32.zip
+*SVN*+:: {svn} - SilkSVN 1.8.5.x 32-bit

==== QT5.2.1 Install
* Run the Installer
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\Qt5*+
* Check: Associate common files types with Qt Creator
* Select Components: Use Default Selections
* License Agreement, read and select
* Start Menu: Use default selections, select next, then install
* Go grab a coffee, this takes about +*5*+ minutes
* At Finish, launch Qt Creator to verify it works, then exit.

==== CMake Install
* Run the Installer
* Agree to Terms
* Select: Do [red]*#not#* add to system PATH
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\CMake*+

==== SilkSVN Install
* Run the Installer
* Agree to Terms
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\SlikSvn*+
* Select Typical, then Install

==== Extract Hamlib
* Unzip folder hamlib-1.2.15.3.zip
* Rename folder +*hamlib-win32-1.2.15.3 => hamlib*+
* Move folder +*hamlib  =>  C:\wsjt-env\hamlib*+

==== Extract FFTW3
* [red]*#Caution#*: FFTW3 does *not* have a top level folder
* Move +*fftw-3.3.3-dll32.zip  =>  C:\wsjt-env\fftw3*+
* Then extract in +*C:\wsjt-env\fftw3*+

==== Setup WSJT-X Build Environment

In this section, we will set up all the required path variables. If you followed
the guide, this is a simple +*Copy {amp} Paste*+. At the completion of this
section, +*wsjt-env.bat*+ will be your standard terminal used for building
_WSJT-X_. You can make a desktop shortcut if desired, for quick access.

* Browse to +*C:\wsjt-env*+ and create a file called: +*wsjt-env.bat*+
* Open +*wsjt-env.bat*+ with a test editor, +*Copy {amp} Paste*+ the following
block into +*wsjt-env.bat*+:

[caption="Enviroment Script: "]
.C:\wsjt-env\wsjtx-env.bat
[source,shell]
----------
include::wsjtx-env.txt[]
----------

* Save and Exit.
* CD to +*C:\wsjt-env*+, Double-Click or Right-Click {amp} Open +*wsjtx-env.bat*+
* Verify packages. At the prompt  +*C:\wsjt-env>*+  check pkg versions: 

[horizontal]
+*qmake --version*+::  => Qmake version 3.0
+*cmake --version*+::  => CMake version 2.8.12
+*gcc --version*+::  => gcc 4.8.0
+*g{plus}{plus} --version*+::  => g++ 4.8.0
+*gfortran --version*+::  => GNU Fortran 4.8.0
+*svn --version*+::  => SVN version 1.8.5

==== Create The CMake Tool-Chain File
* Browse to +*C:\wsjt-env*+, create a file called: +*wsjtx-toolchain.cmake*+
* Edit the file with a text editor. +*Copy {amp} Paste*+ the following block:

[caption="Tool Chain: "]
.C:\wsjt-env\wsjtx-toolchain.cmake
[source,shell]
----------
include::wsjtx-toolchain.cmake[]
----------

==== Create The CMake Build Script
* Browse to +*C:\wsjt-env*+, create a file called: +*wsjtx-build-cmake.bat*+
* Edit the file with a text editor. +*Copy {amp} Paste*+ the following block:

[caption="Build Script: "]
.C:\wsjt-env\wsjtx-build-cmake.bat
[source,shell]
----------
include::wsjtx-build-cmake.txt[]
----------

==== Test Run - Under Construction!

Test Run 

==== Final Notes - Under Construction

Commit message:

*Dev-Guide Updates*
*Updated Linux and Windows Build Sections*

*Makefile.Linux*
- minor edits

** Windows - Ready for more testing
- tested on Vista-64 r3680 built
- needs testing on XP, Win7/8
- builds both Release and Debug
- could us a bit more error handling

:: @QX9770-SRV1/Win64 ==> Cygwin Terminal



git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc@3736 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

dev-guide/source/wsjtx-dev.adoc, after:

=== Linux Makefile Example

In order to build _WSJT-X_ form source, install the following packages:

[source,shell]
----------
sudo apt-get install gcc g++ gfortran make libfftw3-dev \
libpulse-dev libhamlib-dev qtbase5-dev  pulseaudio subversion \
libgfortran3:i386 libc6-i386 libqt5multimedia5-plugins \
qtmultimedia5-dev
----------

adjust install method to you distribution package manager.

==== WSJT-X Build and Run Dependencies
[horizontal]
+*gcc*+:: GNU C Compiler
+*g{plus}{plus}*+:: GNU C{plus}{plus} Compiler
+*gfortran*+:: GNU Fortran or F90
+*make*+:: GNU Make
+*libqt5multimedia5-plugins*+:: QT5 Media Plugins
+*libfftw3-dev*+:: Fast Fourier Transforms
+*libpulse-dev*+:: Headers and Files for Pulse AUdio
+*libhamlib-dev*+:: Headers and Files for Hamlib
+*qtbase5-dev*+:: QT5 Base Dev Files
+*qtmultimedia5-dev*+:: Qt5 Multimedsia Dev Files
+*pulseaudio*+:: Pulse Audio Sound Driver
+*subversion*+:: Version Control Software
+*libgfortran.so.3*+:: Fortran Library
+*libc.so.6*+:: GCC C Library
+*libm.so.6*+:: GCC C Library
+*libgcc_s.so.1libm.so.6*+:: GCC C Library 
+*libquadmath.so.0*+:: Quad-Precision Math Library

==== Build Methods

IMPORTANT: You can perform the steps manually if desired. Using the script
automates the steps.

* Open a terminal session, +*Ctrl{plus}Alt{plus}T*+
* +*Copy {amp} Paste*+ the following block, then +*Enter*+ to save.

[caption="Create Script: "]
.wsjtx-compile.sh
[source,bash]
----------
include::wsjtx-compile.txt[]
----------

==== For Script Method, Change Permissions and Run
[source,bash]
----------
# CHANGE PERMISSION
chmod +x ./wsjtx-compile.sh

# RUN SCRIPT
./wsjtx-compile.sh
----------

==== Test KVASD

Before you launch _WSJT-X_, ensure _KVASD_ can run.

[source,bash]
----------
# cd to the newly created wsjtx-rxxxx directory then: ./kvasd -v
cd wsjtx-$rev_num
./kvasd -v

# If successful, you should see the version number
KVASD version 1.11

# To see the copyright information
./kvasd

----------

==== Run The New WSJT-X Binary

[source,bash]
----------
# When running from a terminal [ ./wsjtx ], the xterm remains open.
# This is good for testing and chasing errors. Run WSJT-X with:

./wsjtx

# You can also use a file manager. Browse to WSJT-X dir, and open
# as you would any other program. Using this method to launch, you
# should not see the terminal window.

----------

=== Windows CMake Example

The critical portion of building _WSJT-X_ on Windows is setting up the
environment and defining paths. Once complete, subsequent builds will be a two
step build process; Open the +*wsjt-env terminal*+ and build with
+*wsjtx-build-cmake.bat -r*+

IMPORTANT: If you have one or more of the following packages installed, you will
need to make adjustments +*wsjtx-env.bat*+. This guide assumes +*none*+ of the
development dependencies have been installed.

==== Directory Setup
* Open Windows CMD Terminal
* Use the following commands to create the required folder structure

[caption="Create Directory Structure:"]
.C:\wsjt-env\.. .. ..
----------
REM -- One command per line, Copy and Paste

c:
mkdir wsjt-env\src wsjt-env\downloads wsjt-env\fftw3
mkdir wsjt-env\wsjtx-build\Debug wsjt-env\wsjtx-build\Release
mkdir wsjt-env\wsjtx-install\Debug wsjt-env\wsjtx-install\Release

REM -- Close the CMD window
----------

==== Download Development Packages

* Save the following packages to +*C:\wsjt-env\downloads*+

[horizontal]
+*Qt5 SDK*+:: {qt5_framework} - Qt 5.2.1 Windows-32, (MinGW 4.8, OpenGL)
+*CMake*+:: {cmake} - Win32 Installer
+*Hamlib*+:: {hamlib} - Hamlib 1.2.15.3.zip
+*FFTW3*+:: {fftw3} - 32-bit version: fftw-3.3.3-dll32.zip
+*SVN*+:: {svn} - SilkSVN 1.8.5.x 32-bit

==== QT5.2.1 Install
* Run the Installer
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\Qt5*+
* Check: Associate common files types with Qt Creator
* Select Components: Use Default Selections
* License Agreement, read and select
* Start Menu: Use default selections, select next, then install
* Go grab a coffee, this takes about +*5*+ minutes
* At Finish, launch Qt Creator to verify it works, then exit.

==== CMake Install
* Run the Installer
* Agree to Terms
* Select: Do [red]*#not#* add to system PATH
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\CMake*+

==== SilkSVN Install
* Run the Installer
* Agree to Terms
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\SlikSvn*+
* Select Typical, then Install

==== Extract Hamlib
* Unzip folder hamlib-1.2.15.3.zip
* Rename folder +*hamlib-win32-1.2.15.3 => hamlib*+
* Move folder +*hamlib  =>  C:\wsjt-env\hamlib*+

==== Extract FFTW3
* [red]*#Caution#*: FFTW3 does *not* have a top level folder
* Move +*fftw-3.3.3-dll32.zip  =>  C:\wsjt-env\fftw3*+
* Then extract in +*C:\wsjt-env\fftw3*+

==== Setup WSJT-X Build Environment

In this section, we will set up all the required path variables. If you followed
the guide, this is a simple +*Copy {amp} Paste*+. At the completion of this
section, +*wsjt-env.bat*+ will be your standard terminal used for building
_WSJT-X_. You can make a desktop shortcut if desired, for quick access.

* Browse to +*C:\wsjt-env*+ and create a file called: +*wsjt-env.bat*+
* Open +*wsjt-env.bat*+ with a test editor, +*Copy {amp} Paste*+ the following
block into +*wsjt-env.bat*+:

[caption="Enviroment Script: "]
.C:\wsjt-env\wsjtx-env.bat
[source,shell]
----------
include::wsjtx-env.txt[]
----------

* Save and Exit.
* CD to +*C:\wsjt-env*+, Double-Click or Right-Click {amp} Open +*wsjtx-env.bat*+
* Verify packages. At the prompt  +*C:\wsjt-env>*+  check pkg versions: 

[horizontal]
+*qmake --version*+::  => Qmake version 3.0
+*cmake --version*+::  => CMake version 2.8.12
+*gcc --version*+::  => gcc 4.8.0
+*g{plus}{plus} --version*+::  => g++ 4.8.0
+*gfortran --version*+::  => GNU Fortran 4.8.0
+*svn --version*+::  => SVN version 1.8.5

==== Create The CMake Tool-Chain File
* Browse to +*C:\wsjt-env*+, create a file called: +*wsjtx-toolchain.cmake*+
* Edit the file with a text editor. +*Copy {amp} Paste*+ the following block:

[caption="Tool Chain: "]
.C:\wsjt-env\wsjtx-toolchain.cmake
[source,shell]
----------
include::wsjtx-toolchain.cmake[]
----------

==== Create The CMake Build Script
* Browse to +*C:\wsjt-env*+, create a file called: +*wsjtx-build-cmake.bat*+
* Edit the file with a text editor. +*Copy {amp} Paste*+ the following block:

[caption="Build Script: "]
.C:\wsjt-env\wsjtx-build-cmake.bat
[source,shell]
----------
include::wsjtx-build-cmake.txt[]
----------

==== Test Run
* Browse to +*C:\wsjt-env*+, Double-Click or Right-Click {amp} Open
+*wsjtx-env.bat*+.
* In the terminal, type

[caption="Build: "]
.Release Version
[source,shell]
---------
wsjtx-build-cmake.bat
---------
* If everything processed as expected, your new build will be located in:
+*C:\wsjt-env\wsjtx-install\Release\bin*+

[caption="Build: "]
.Debug Version
[source,shell]
---------
wsjtx-build-cmake.bat -d
---------
