source/sourcecode.adoc, before:


All source code for the WSJT programs is available through an open-source
repository known as SourceForge, under control of the version-control
program {svn}. Subversion is included in all three Software Development
Kits *(SDK)*. There is no need to install Subversion if you intend to
build applications or documentation using the appropriate development
kit.

You can browse the organization of files in the repository {wsjt_svn}.
Code for program _WSJT_ lies in the +trunk+ directory, while code for
the other programs is found in +.../branches/map65+,
+.../branches/wsjtx+, and +.../branches/wsprx+.  Various experimental
branches may also exist, and snapshots of code for certain released
program versions may be obtained from the +.../tags+ directory.

WARNING: Please note: the HEAD of the SVN repository for any of these
programs is likely to be an active development branch.  There is no
guarantee that a build from every revision will be successful, nor
that it will provide a stable executable program.

.CHECKOUT METHODS
There are two methods for checking out source code, <<ANONCO,Anonymous>>
and <<DEVCO,Developer>>. 

[[ANONCO]]
=== Anonymous
Anonymous checkouts allow you to build all documentation and
applications using the same methods as the developers, however,
you cannot check-in your local updates to the repository.

Each SDK has short-cuts built-in for Anonymous check-outs. For example,
to check-out +*WSJT*+, from the JTSDK-PY environment, type:
-----
checkout wsjt
-----

You can also manually check-out +*WSJT*+, using
-----
svn co https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/trunk
-----

.Anonymous Source Code Locations:
[horizontal]
+*DOCS*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc
+*WSJT*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/trunk
+*WSJT-X*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wsjtx
+*WSPR*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wspr
+*WSPR-X*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wsprx
+*MAP65*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/map65

//

[[DEVCO]]
=== Developer
In order to use the developer check-out or check-in process

* Create a {sourceforge} User Account
* Email {joe_taylor} to be added to the Developer List.

Then, using +*WSJT*+ as the example:

---------
svn co https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/trunk 
---------

Substitute your SourceForge username for +USER+.

TIP: Due to the variations in user names, developer check-out short-cuts 
are not possible, and must be manually entered.

.Developer Checkout Locations:

[horizontal]
+*DOCS*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc
+*WSJT*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/trunk
+*WSJT-X*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wsjtx
+*WSPR*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wspr
+*WSPR-X*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wsprx
+*MAP65*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/map65

[[RC]]
=== Release Candidates
Often, release candidates *(RC)* are provided for *Alpha* or *Beta* testing.
Where feasible, the *(SDK)* provides a method of build for each candidate.

The posted *(RC)* is tested against the *SDK {revision}* and should
perform the build correctly. Back-porting, due to the many variables
involved, is not possible at this time. If you need an older version
of a particular application, the best advice would be to use a 
previously posted binary installer or the <<TAG, tagged branch>>.

.Release Candidate Locations
The following uses _WSJT-X_ as an example. Note the URL differences. At
the time of this writing, the current release candidate is _WSJT-X v1.4 RC2_.
Pulling the release candidate branch will get you the *Next (RC)* in
the branch, in this case *(RC3)*, not *(RC2)*.

---------

Base URL: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/

../wsjtx-1.4 ..: would pull WSJT-X v1.4 *(RCx)*
../wsjtx ......: would pull WSJT-X v1.5.0 *(RC1)*

---------

To pull {wsjtx_rc2_tag}, use the <<TAG,Tagged RC2 Branch>>.

[[TAG]]
=== Tagged Releases
A tagged version of a particular application is frozen, both in terms of
the tool set used to build it, and the feature set it provides. Additional
bug fixes or feature enhancements are sent upstream to the development
+trunk+ or +branch+. As such, the respective *(SDK)* may or may not be able
to re-build all +tagged versions+. correctly. Future releases of the respective 
*(SDK)* may allow for this type of regression / back-porting activity.

Commit message:

dev-guide general updates
git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc/dev-guide@4490 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

source/sourcecode.adoc, after:


All source code for the WSJT programs is available through an open-source
repository known as SourceForge, under control of the version-control
program {svn}. Subversion is included in all three Software Development
Kits *(SDK)*. There is no need to install Subversion if you intend to
build applications or documentation using the appropriate development
kit.

You can browse the organization of files in the repository {wsjt_svn}.
Code for program _WSJT_ lies in the +trunk+ directory, while code for
the other programs is found in +.../branches/map65+,
+.../branches/wsjtx+, and +.../branches/wsprx+.  Various experimental
branches may also exist, and snapshots of code for certain released
program versions may be obtained from the +.../tags+ directory.

WARNING: Please note: the HEAD of the SVN repository for any of these
programs is likely to be an active development branch.  There is no
guarantee that a build from every revision will be successful, nor
that it will provide a stable executable program.

=== Checkout Methods
There are two primary methods for checking out source code, <<ANONCO,Anonymous>>
and <<DEVCO,Developer>>. Additional checkouts are provided by way of
<<RC,Release Candidates>> and <<TAG,Tagged Releases>>.

[[ANONCO]]
=== Anonymous
Anonymous checkouts allow you to build all documentation and
applications using the same methods as the developers, however,
you cannot check-in your local updates to the repository.

Each SDK has short-cuts built-in for Anonymous check-outs. For example,
to check-out +*WSJT*+, from the JTSDK-PY environment, type:
-----
checkout wsjt
-----

You can also manually check-out +*WSJT*+, using
-----
svn co https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/trunk
-----

.Anonymous Source Code Locations:
[horizontal]
+*DOCS*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc
+*WSJT*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/trunk
+*WSJT-X*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wsjtx
+*WSPR*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wspr
+*WSPR-X*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wsprx
+*MAP65*+:: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/map65

//

[[DEVCO]]
=== Developer
In order to use the developer check-out or check-in process

* Create a {sourceforge} User Account
* Email {joe_taylor} to be added to the Developer List.

Then, using +*WSJT*+ as the example:

---------
svn co https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/trunk 
---------

Substitute your SourceForge username for +USER+.

TIP: Due to the variations in user names, developer check-out short-cuts 
are not possible, and must be manually entered.

.Developer Checkout Locations:

[horizontal]
+*DOCS*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc
+*WSJT*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/trunk
+*WSJT-X*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wsjtx
+*WSPR*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wspr
+*WSPR-X*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/wsprx
+*MAP65*+:: https://user@svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/map65

[[RC]]
=== Release Candidates
Often, release candidates *(RC)* are provided for *Alpha* or *Beta* testing.
Where feasible, the *(SDK)* provides a method of build for each candidate.

The posted *(RC)* is tested against the *JTSDK-(QT,PY) {revision}* and
should perform the build correctly. Back-porting, due to the many
variables involved, is not possible at this time. If you need an older
version of a particular application, the best advice would be to use a 
previously posted binary installer or the <<TAG, tagged branch>>.

.Release Candidate Locations
The following uses _WSJT-X_ as an example. Note the URL differences. At
the time of this writing, the current release candidate is _WSJT-X v1.4 RC2_.
Pulling the release candidate branch will get you the *Next (RC)* in
the branch, in this case *(RC3)*, not *(RC2)*. To pull {wsjtx_rc2_tag},
use the <<TAG,Tagged RC2 Branch>>.

---------

Base URL: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/

../wsjtx-1.4 ..: would pull WSJT-X v1.4 (RCx)
../wsjtx ......: would pull WSJT-X v1.5.0 (RC1)

---------

[[TAG]]
=== Tagged Releases
A tagged version of a particular application is frozen, both in terms of
the tool set used to build it, and the feature set it provides. Additional
bug fixes or feature enhancements are sent upstream to the development
+trunk+ or +branch+. As such, the respective *(SDK)* may or may not be able
to re-build all tagged version correctly. Future releases of the respective 
*(SDK)* may allow for this type of regression / back-porting activity.

Tagged branches can be found at:

---------

Base URL: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/tags

../wsjtx-1.4.0-rc2 ..: would pull WSJT-X v1.4 (RC2)

---------
