source/wsjtx-dev.adoc, before:

:prog: The pass:[Developer's] Guide
=== Linux Makefile Example

In order to build _WSJT-X_ form source, install the following packages:

[source,shell]
----------
# DEBIAN, UBUNTU, MINT and FRIENDS
sudo apt-get install gcc g++ gfortran make libfftw3-dev \
libpulse-dev libhamlib-dev qtbase5-dev  pulseaudio subversion \
libgfortran3:i386 libc6-i386 libqt5multimedia5-plugins \
qtmultimedia5-dev
----------

Adjust install method to you distribution package manager.

==== WSJT-X Build and Run Dependencies
[horizontal]
+*gcc*+:: GNU C Compiler
+*g{plus}{plus}*+:: GNU C{plus}{plus} Compiler
+*gfortran*+:: GNU Fortran or F90
+*make*+:: GNU Make
+*libqt5multimedia5-plugins*+:: QT5 Media Plugins
+*libfftw3-dev*+:: Fast Fourier Transforms
+*libpulse-dev*+:: Headers and Files for Pulse AUdio
+*libhamlib-dev*+:: Headers and Files for Hamlib
+*qtbase5-dev*+:: QT5 Base Dev Files
+*qtmultimedia5-dev*+:: Qt5 Multimedia Dev Files
+*pulseaudio*+:: Pulse Audio Sound Driver
+*subversion*+:: Version Control Software
+*libgfortran.so.3*+:: Fortran Library
+*libc.so.6*+:: GCC C Library
+*libm.so.6*+:: GCC C Library
+*libgcc_s.so.1libm.so.6*+:: GCC C Library 
+*libquadmath.so.0*+:: Quad-Precision Math Library

==== Build Methods

IMPORTANT: You can perform the steps manually if desired. Using the script
automates the steps.

* Open a terminal session, +*Ctrl{plus}Alt{plus}T*+
* +*Copy {amp} Paste*+ the following block, then +*Enter*+ to save.

[caption="Create Script: "]
.wsjtx-compile.sh
[source,bash]
----------
include::wsjtx-compile.sh[]
----------

==== If Using The Script, Change Permission and Run
[source,bash]
----------
# CHANGE PERMISSION
chmod +x ./wsjtx-compile.sh

# RUN SCRIPT
./wsjtx-compile.sh
----------

==== Test KVASD

Before you launch _WSJT-X_, ensure _KVASD_ can run.

[source,bash]
----------
# CHANGE DIRECTORY and RUN KVASD
cd wsjtx-$rev_num
./kvasd -v

# SUCESSFUL RETURN
KVASD version 1.11

# VIEW COPYRGHT
./kvasd

----------

==== Run The New WSJT-X Binary

[source,bash]
----------
# When running from a terminal [ ./wsjtx ], the xterm remains open.
# This is good for testing and chasing errors. Run WSJT-X with:

./wsjtx

# You can also use a file manager. Browse to WSJT-X dir, and open
# as you would any other program. Using this method to launch, you
# should not see the terminal window.

----------

=== Windows CMake Example

[[EXAMPLE]]
This example will use the following setup:

[horizontal]
+*OS*+:: Windows Vista 64 bit
+*Install Path*+:: C:\
+*Alternate Locations*+:: D:\, F:\ G:\tools were tested
+*Setup Method*+:: wsjtx-build-setup.bat
+*Final Path*+:: C:\wsjt-env

A script is provided to setup the initial folder structure, download the
build script +*(wsjtx-build-cmake.bat)*+ and _CMake_ tool chain file
+*(wsjtx-toolchain.cmake)*+. You can save this script anywhere you like. Using the
setup <<EXAMPLE,example>> will build the structure in <<TREE,Figure-2>> when
the script is saved to +*C:\*+ directory.

==== Setup Build Environment

IMPORTANT: With the exception of {svn}, The entire development environment is
contained within: +*C:\wsjt-env*+. Using the +*wsjt-env CMD Terminal*+ method,
any previous installation of +*QT*+ or +*CMake*+ should not be a problem to
either environment.

* Open a Windows CMD Terminal and perform the following steps:

[[SETUP]]
[source,shell]
---------
# CHANGE DIRECTORY TO INSTALL LOCATION
c:

# SVN EXPORT WSJTX-BUILD-SETUP.BAT
svn export svn://svn.berlios.de/wsjt/branches/doc/dev-guide/source/wsjtx-build-setup.bat

# RUN THE SETUP
c:\wsjtx-build-setup.bat

# CLOSE ALL CMD TERMINALS
---------

* If there were no errors, the tree should look <<TREE,Figure-2>>
* To see the new tree: cd wsjt-snv {amp} tree

[[TREE]]
.WSJT Env Directory Tree 
image::images/wsjt-env-tree.png[align="left"]


==== Download Development Packages

* Save the following packages to +*C:\wsjt-env\downloads*+
* The follow each section for specific on installation.

[horizontal]
+*Qt5 SDK*+:: {qt5_framework} - Qt 5.2.1 Windows-32, (MinGW 4.8, OpenGL)
+*CMake*+:: {cmake} - Win32 Installer
+*Hamlib*+:: {hamlib} - Hamlib 1.2.15.3.zip
+*FFTW3*+:: {fftw3} - 32-bit version: fftw-3.3.3-dll32.zip
+*SVN*+:: {svn} - SilkSVN 1.8.5.x 32-bit
+*MS Tools*+:: {mstools} - Microsoft Tool Kit

.QT5.2.1 Install
* Run the Installer
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\Qt5*+
* Check: Associate common files types with Qt Creator
* Select Components: Use Default Selections
* License Agreement, read and select
* Start Menu: Use default selections, select next, then install
* Go grab a coffee, this takes about +*5*+ minutes to install
* At Finish, launch Qt Creator to verify it works, then exit.

.CMake Install
* Run the Installer
* Agree to Terms
* Select: Do [red]*#not#* add to system PATH
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\CMake*+

.Extract Hamlib
* Unzip folder hamlib-1.2.15.3.zip
* Rename folder +*hamlib-win32-1.2.15.3 => hamlib*+
* Move folder +*hamlib  =>  C:\wsjt-env\hamlib*+

.Extract FFTW3
* [red]*#Caution#*: FFTW3 does *not* have a top level folder
* Move +*fftw-3.3.3-dll32.zip  =>  C:\wsjt-env\fftw3f*+
* Extract in +*C:\wsjt-env\fftw3f*+

.SilkSVN Install
* Run the Installer
* Agree to Terms
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\SlikSvn*+
* Select Typical, then Install
* Note: All the SVN installers tested, added added itself to the system %PATH%

[[MSTOOLS,MS Tools]]
.MS Tools - Win-XP
* Windows Vista and beyond should not need this 
* In a Windows CMD terminal c:\robocopy /?
* If not installed, {mstools} first, then
* Run the installer 

==== Run WSJT ENV And Buld WSJT-X
 
 * After installing the development packages, browse to +*C:\wsjt-env*+
 * Double click on +*wsjt-env-bat*+. If all packages are found, your WSJT Ent
 Terminal should list all the required package versions, see <<TOOLS,Figure-2>>.
 
  [[TOOLS]]
.WSJT-X Build Tools 
image::images/wsjt-env.png[align="left"]

* If any fo the dependencies are missing, or the script cannot find the path,
the give you a warning, stating which packages was not found, then exit.

==== Test Run
* Browse to +*C:\wsjt-env*+, Double-Click or Right-Click {amp} Open
+*wsjt-env.bat*+.
* In the terminal, type

[caption="Build: "]
.Release Version
[source,shell]
---------
wsjtx-build-cmake.bat -r
---------
* New _WSJT-X_ Release Binary Location: +*C:\wsjt-env\wsjtx-install\Release\bin*+

Note the [green]*#Release#\bin* directory

[caption="Build: "]
.Debug Version
[source,shell]
---------
wsjtx-build-cmake.bat -d
---------

* New _WSJT-X_ Debug Binary Location: +*C:\wsjt-env\wsjtx-install\Debug\bin*+

Note the [green]*#Debug#\bin* directory

Commit message:

*Dev-Guide Updates*
*Updated Linux Makefile Section*
- updated to remove Copy & Paste
- added svn export mehod

*Other Edits*
- minor syntax and typo's

:: @A305-Laptop/UB64 ==> gnome-terminal



git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/wsjt/wsjt/branches/doc/dev-guide@3758 ab8295b8-cf94-4d9e-aec4-7959e3be5d79

source/wsjtx-dev.adoc, after:

:prog: The pass:[Developer's] Guide
=== Linux Makefile Example

In order to build _WSJT-X_ form source, install the following packages:

[source,shell]
----------
# DEBIAN, UBUNTU, MINT and FRIENDS
sudo apt-get install gcc g++ gfortran make libfftw3-dev \
libpulse-dev libhamlib-dev qtbase5-dev  pulseaudio subversion \
libgfortran3:i386 libc6-i386 libqt5multimedia5-plugins \
qtmultimedia5-dev
----------

Adjust install method to you distribution package manager.

==== WSJT-X Build and Run Dependencies
[horizontal]
+*gcc*+:: GNU C Compiler
+*g{plus}{plus}*+:: GNU C{plus}{plus} Compiler
+*gfortran*+:: GNU Fortran or F90
+*make*+:: GNU Make
+*libqt5multimedia5-plugins*+:: QT5 Media Plugins
+*libfftw3-dev*+:: Fast Fourier Transforms
+*libpulse-dev*+:: Headers and Files for Pulse AUdio
+*libhamlib-dev*+:: Headers and Files for Hamlib
+*qtbase5-dev*+:: QT5 Base Dev Files
+*qtmultimedia5-dev*+:: Qt5 Multimedia Dev Files
+*pulseaudio*+:: Pulse Audio Sound Driver
+*subversion*+:: Version Control Software
+*libgfortran.so.3*+:: Fortran Library
+*libc.so.6*+:: GCC C Library
+*libm.so.6*+:: GCC C Library
+*libgcc_s.so.1libm.so.6*+:: GCC C Library 
+*libquadmath.so.0*+:: Quad-Precision Math Library

==== Build Methods

IMPORTANT: You can perform the steps manually if desired. Using the script
automates the steps.

* Open a terminal session, +*Ctrl{plus}Alt{plus}T*+
* Checkout the script from SVN using:

[source,shell]
----------
# SVN CHECKOUT WSJTX-COMPILE.SH

svn export svn://svn.berlios.de/wsjt/branches/doc/dev-guide/source/wsjtx-compile.sh

----------

.Manual Entry
* For manual entry, start at +*BUILD_DIR=~/Projects/wsjtx-build*+ and
perform each step that does not start with start with "#" sign.

.Using the Script
* Using The Build Script, Change Permission and Run
[source,bash]
----------
# CHANGE PERMISSION
chmod +x ./wsjtx-compile.sh

# RUN SCRIPT
./wsjtx-compile.sh
----------


.wsjtx-compile.sh
[source,bash]
----------
include::wsjtx-compile.sh[]
----------



==== Test KVASD

Before you launch _WSJT-X_, ensure _KVASD_ can run.

[source,bash]
----------
# CHANGE DIRECTORY and RUN KVASD
cd wsjtx-$rev_num
./kvasd -v

# SUCESSFUL RETURN
KVASD version 1.11

# VIEW COPYRGHT
./kvasd

----------

==== Run The New WSJT-X Binary

[source,bash]
----------
# When running from a terminal [ ./wsjtx ], the xterm remains open.
# This is good for testing and chasing errors. Run WSJT-X with:

./wsjtx

# You can also use a file manager. Browse to WSJT-X dir, and open
# as you would any other program. Using this method to launch, you
# should not see the terminal window.

----------

=== Windows CMake Example

[[EXAMPLE]]
This example will use the following setup:

[horizontal]
+*OS*+:: Windows Vista 64 bit
+*Install Path*+:: C:\
+*Alternate Locations*+:: D:\, F:\ G:\tools were tested
+*Setup Method*+:: wsjtx-build-setup.bat
+*Final Path*+:: C:\wsjt-env

A script is provided to setup the initial folder structure, download the
build script +*(wsjtx-build-cmake.bat)*+ and _CMake_ tool chain file
+*(wsjtx-toolchain.cmake)*+. You can save this script anywhere you like. Using the
setup <<EXAMPLE,example>> will build the structure in <<TREE,Figure-2>> when
the script is saved to +*C:\*+ directory.

==== Setup Build Environment

IMPORTANT: With the exception of {svn}, The entire development environment is
contained within: +*C:\wsjt-env*+. Using the +*wsjt-env CMD Terminal*+ method,
any previous installation of +*QT*+ or +*CMake*+ should not be a problem to
either environment.

* Open a Windows CMD Terminal and perform the following steps:

[[SETUP]]
[source,shell]
---------
# CHANGE DIRECTORY TO INSTALL LOCATION
c:

# SVN EXPORT WSJTX-BUILD-SETUP.BAT
svn export svn://svn.berlios.de/wsjt/branches/doc/dev-guide/source/wsjtx-build-setup.bat

# RUN THE SETUP
c:\wsjtx-build-setup.bat

# CLOSE ALL CMD TERMINALS
---------

* If there were no errors, the tree should look <<TREE,Figure-1>>
* To see the new tree: cd wsjt-snv {amp} tree

[[TREE]]
.WSJT Env Directory Tree 
image::images/wsjt-env-tree.png[align="left"]


==== Download Development Packages

* Save the following packages to +*C:\wsjt-env\downloads*+
* The follow each section for specific on installation.

[horizontal]
+*Qt5 SDK*+:: {qt5_framework} - Qt 5.2.1 Windows-32, (MinGW 4.8, OpenGL)
+*CMake*+:: {cmake} - Win32 Installer
+*Hamlib*+:: {hamlib} - Hamlib 1.2.15.3.zip
+*FFTW3*+:: {fftw3} - 32-bit version: fftw-3.3.3-dll32.zip
+*SVN*+:: {svn} - SilkSVN 1.8.5.x 32-bit
+*MS Tools*+:: {mstools} - Microsoft Tool Kit

.QT5.2.1 Install
* Run the Installer
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\Qt5*+
* Check: Associate common files types with Qt Creator
* Select Components: Use Default Selections
* License Agreement, read and select
* Start Menu: Use default selections, select next, then install
* Go grab a coffee, this takes about +*5*+ minutes to install
* At Finish, launch Qt Creator to verify it works, then exit.

.CMake Install
* Run the Installer
* Agree to Terms
* Select: Do [red]*#not#* add to system PATH
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\CMake*+

.Extract Hamlib
* Unzip folder hamlib-1.2.15.3.zip
* Rename folder +*hamlib-win32-1.2.15.3 => hamlib*+
* Move folder +*hamlib  =>  C:\wsjt-env\hamlib*+

.Extract FFTW3
* [red]*#Caution#*: FFTW3 does *not* have a top level folder
* Move +*fftw-3.3.3-dll32.zip  =>  C:\wsjt-env\fftw3f*+
* Extract in +*C:\wsjt-env\fftw3f*+

.SilkSVN Install
* Run the Installer
* Agree to Terms
* Change Install Path to: +*C:\wsjt-env\SlikSvn*+
* Select Typical, then Install
* Note: All the SVN installers tested, added added itself to the system %PATH%

[[MSTOOLS,MS Tools]]
.MS Tools - Win-XP
* Windows Vista and beyond should not need this 
* In a Windows CMD terminal c:\robocopy /?
* If not installed, {mstools} first, then
* Run the installer 

==== Run WSJT ENV And Build WSJT-X
 
 * After installing the development packages, browse to +*C:\wsjt-env*+
 * Double click on +*wsjt-env-bat*+. If all packages are found, your WSJT Ent
 Terminal should list all the required package versions, see <<TOOLS,Figure-2>>.
 
[[TOOLS]]
.WSJT-X Build Tools 
image::images/wsjt-env.png[align="left"]

* If any of the dependencies are missing, or the script cannot find the path,
the give you a warning, stating which packages was not found, then exit.

==== Test Run
* Browse to +*C:\wsjt-env*+, Double-Click or Right-Click {amp} Open
+*wsjt-env.bat*+.
* In the terminal, type

[caption="Build: "]
.Release Version
[source,shell]
---------
wsjtx-build-cmake.bat -r
---------
* New _WSJT-X_ Release Binary Location: +*C:\wsjt-env\wsjtx-install\Release\bin*+

Note the [green]*#Release#\bin* directory

[caption="Build: "]
.Debug Version
[source,shell]
---------
wsjtx-build-cmake.bat -d
---------

* New _WSJT-X_ Debug Binary Location: +*C:\wsjt-env\wsjtx-install\Debug\bin*+

Note the [green]*#Debug#\bin* directory
