// Status=review

At the center of the main window are a number of controls used when
making QSOs.  Controls not relevant to a particular mode or submode
may be "grayed out" (disabled) or removed from the display.

//.Misc Controls Center
image::misc-controls-center.png[align="center",alt="Misc Controls Center"]

* Check *Tx even* to transmit in even-numbered UTC minutes or
sequences, starting at 0.  Uncheck this box to transmit in the odd
sequences.  The correct selection is made automatically when you
double-click on a decoded text line, as described in the
<<TUTORIAL,Basic Operating Tutorial>>.

* The Tx and Rx audio frequencies can be set automatically by
double-clicking on decoded text or a signal in the waterfall.  They
can also be adjusted using the spinner controls.

* You can force Tx frequency to the current Rx frequency by clicking
the *Tx<-Rx* button, and vice-versa for *Rx<-Tx*.  Check the box *Lock
Tx=Rx* to make the frequencies always track one another.  The
on-the-air frequency of your lowest JT9 or JT65 tone is the sum of
dial frequency and audio Tx frequency.

TIP: In general we do not recommend using *Lock Tx=Rx* since it
encourages poor radio etiquette when running a frequency.  With *Lock
Tx=Rx* checked, your own Tx frequency will move around following your
callers.

* The *Report* control lets you change a signal report that has been
inserted automatically. Typical reports for the various modes fall in
the range â€“30 to +20 dB.  Remember that JT65 reports saturate at an
upper limit of -1 dB.

TIP: Consider reducing power if your QSO partner reports your
signal above -5 dB in one of the _WSJT-X_ slow modes.  These are
supposed to be weak signal modes!

* With *Split operation* activated on the *Settings -> Radio* tab, you
can activate the spinner control *Tx CQ nnn* by checking the box to
its right.  The program will then generate something like `CQ nnn
K1ABC FN42` for your CQ message, where `nnn` is the kHz portion of
your current operating frequency.  Your CQ message *Tx6* will then be
transmitted at the calling frequency selected in the *Tx CQ nnn* spinner
control.  All other messages will be transmitted at your current
operating frequency.  On reception, when you double-click on a message
like `CQ nnn K1ABC FN42` your rig will QSY to the specified frequency
so you can call the station at his specified response frequency.
